URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci

Human-Computer Interaction, The University of Melbourne

Our mission: To create the next generation of interactive technologies.We are a world-leading group of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) researchers who study, teach and are fascinated by issues arising from humans interacting with emerging technologies. Our group has strong foundations in both qualitative and quantitative methods, and brings together cutting-edge technology design with development. Our state-of-the-art facilities enable us to create and study the next generation of interactive technologies, which we validate in a number of important application areas.View our publications

Research themes

Bringing together researchers who develop interactive technologies to augment our everyday environments.

Developing novel technologies that move beyond the desktop computing paradigm. The topics we work on include context awareness, sensing techniques, smartphone technologies, wearables, the Internet of Things, mobility analysis, and smart environments.

Seeking to support citizens to take control of their health, to help health professionals get treatment to more people more efficiently, and to help health systems cope with increasing loads.

We investigate how digital technologies can be designed to help people enjoy, appreciate and learn about the natural world.

Designing and developing prototypes using new interactive devices, including, but not limited to: virtual, augmented, and extended reality, eye tracking, physiological sensors, 3D printing, motion capture, projection mapping, interactive AI and machine learning.

Investigating how new technologies can be designed and used to support people’s wellbeing and social connectedness in later life.

Exploring the ways that people experience and create games and playful experiences; and seeking to understand how technology supports these activities.

Creating and evaluating sociotechnical systems that help mediate communication and collaboration between people.

Our group is interested in the nexus of humans, technology and information. Having the right information at the right time is key to autonomy, decision making, and modern democracy.

Our work brings together research from human-computer interaction, robotics, and AI to develop a robotics system that adapts to humans autonomously.

All research projects Seminars

View a list of our staff with links to their personal webpages.
View our staff

View a list of our graduate researchers (PhD and Masters by research candidates) with links to their personal webpages.
View our students

View a list of our PhD and Masters by research alumni, with their thesis titles.
View our alumni

Contact usWally SmithGroup Leader Email: wally.smith@unimelb.edu.auWafa JohalGroup Leader Email: wafa.johal@unimelb.edu.au

StudyIf you are interested in undertaking studies in Human-Computer Interaction and affiliated disciplines, we offer a number of options.We teach a variety of subjects covering a range of HCI topics, including methods, techniques, technologies. Most of our taught subjects are primarily project-based.Our group also supervises a range of research and software development projects for students working on a minor thesis.Studying with us gives you access to state-of-the-art facilities, hands-on experience with novel interactive technologies, and opportunities to put in practice skills that are in high demand in the job market.

Find out about the undergraduate and graduate coursework programs we offer.

See which subjects or projects you can do with us.

Our group supervises masters projects across various coursework programs. View available projects.

Find out how to do a PhD in HCI.

Our researchers and students have access to a number of facilities at the University that allow them to develop and run experiments to push the boundaries of human-computer interaction. Each facility is unique and together provides researchers with end-to-end research capabilities from developing and manufacturing prototypes to running interaction design experiments.

A specialist facility for usability testing and interaction research, it supports a wide range of UI/UX activities and offers access to advanced audio-visual equipment and user testing tools such as observation rooms, HD cameras, microphone arrays and eye-trackers.

A research laboratory dedicated to the exploration, design and development of novel interactions equipped with technologies such as motion-capture, AR/VR headsets, depth sensor cameras, wearables, various sensors and electronics development kits.

A workshop that has been running since 1938 that provides design consultancy and manufacturing services such as CNC machining, conventional machining, welding fabrication, 3D printing and scanning, sheet metal fabrication and plumbing.

An accessible fabrication lab located at Melbourne Connect precinct, where technology and creativity combine to design and build innovative solutions available to active Melbourne University students, academics, or Melbourne Connect tenants.

Contact the Lab ManagerTo arrange access or use of these facilities, contact:Lab ManagerAllen Mari PilaresEmail allen.pilares@unimelb.edu.au Phone+61 3 9035 8760

Upcoming seminars

Recent seminars

Google calendar

Past seminars2020 | 2019 | 2016–2018 | 2011–2015 | 2006–2010 | 2004–2005

TimeWeekly seminars are usually held on Fridays from 3–4pm on topics relevant to interaction design. Special and additional seminars are also held occasionally; refer to the upcoming seminars for details.VenueRoom 5206, Level 5 Melbourne Connect (Building 290) 700 Swanston Street Carlton VIC 3053SubscribeTo subscribe to our seminar mailing list, contact: Seminar Coordinator  Matthew Sidji Email msidji@student.unimelb.edu.auSubscribe to Google calendar+iCal

Older news2021 2020 2019


