URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/#about

School of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne

The School of Computing and Information Systems is an international research leader in computer science, information systems and software engineering. We are focused on delivering impact in the following key areas:

Research themes

Our researchers address many different approaches to AI, encompassing deep learning, data mining, machine learning, natural language processing, and agent-based systems.

Current areas of excellence include programming languages, algorithms, distributed computing, and cybersecurity and cryptography.

We study, teach and are fascinated by issues arising from humans interacting with emerging technologies.

The study of the interplay between information technology, its users (people), and the operations (business processes) through which this technology is used.

Research centres

Our research capability is focused on key challenges, including detecting attacks in large, complex systems, using formal methods to design platforms that are resilient to attack, designing robust controllers for critical infrastructure, and providing a legal framework for the governance of cyber operations that span a range of jurisdictions.

ARC ITTC in Optimisation Technologies, Integrated Methodologies and Applications (OPTIMA)
Training a new generation of industry practitioners and young researchers to build a highly skilled workforce, vanguarding the uptake of advanced optimisation technologies to support industrial transformation.

ARC Training Centre in Cognitive Computing for Medical Technologies
The Centre is aimed at creating a workforce that is expert in developing, applying and interrogating artificial intelligence applications in data-intensive medical contexts, to facilitate the next generation of data-driven and machine learning-based medical technologies.

Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Digital Ethics (CAIDE)
Facilitating cross-disciplinary research, teaching and leadership on the ethical, regulatory and legal issues relating to Artificial Intelligence (AI) and digital technologies.

Centre for Digital Transformation of Health
Health informatics and digital health are a recurring theme within all the School’s research areas. We specialise in health data analytics; personal technologies; and IT systems processes and management.

Centre for Research Excellence in Digital Technology to Transform Chronic Disease Outcomes
We leverage the ubiquitous availability of smart devices and digital technology to improve the health and wellbeing of the population, particularly those with different chronic conditions.

Melbourne Centre for Data Science (MCDS)
At the Melbourne Centre for Data Science, we are forging a vibrant, research rich and engaging interdisciplinary environment to lead advances in data science for the benefit of society.

ARC Digital Bioprocess Development Hub
The ARC Digital Bioprocess Development Hub will address key bioprocessing research challenges and develop new process and digital models that can predict and optimise manufacturing processes, resulting in greater yields, faster and more flexible processes and enhanced product stability.

View a showcase of projects carried out in collaboration with industry partners:Industry collaboration projects

Dr Marie Connett  Senior Business Development Managermconnett@unimelb.edu.au

Industry engagement in teaching
We recognise the value of a curriculum guided by industry. We invite industry members to contribute to the ongoing refinement of our curriculum.

Host a student within your organisation, to assist with a specific project or to preview potential future graduate employees.

Host 6–7 short meetings with a group of 4–6 students on a fortnightly basis.

Engage our students to work on a technical project of relevance to your organisation. These projects are undertaken by Masters students on campus.

An opportunity to share your organisation’s real-world knowledge with our students. We invite interested industry members to contribute their experience of the practical application of our curriculum.

The school of CIS offers undergraduate, graduate, and research courses in computer science, information systems, and information technology. Information about our courses, including support for current students, can be found at the links below.

The First Year Centre, located in Level 3 of Melbourne Connect, is a space for first year CIS students to study, socialise, and receive academic support for their CIS subjects.

The school of CIS offers undergraduate majors through both the Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Design. These include Computing and Software Systems, Spatial Systems, Data Science, and User Experience Design.

A wide range of CIS courses are offered at the master's level. Many of these are purely coursework-based, and some involve significant research components. Entry requirements vary between degrees, with some not requiring completion of an undergraduate major in IT.

A unique opportunity to practise technical skills in a real-life work environment, supported by a dedicated workplace and an industry supervisor. Gain practical experience to enhance your employment prospects and networking opportunities.

All staff and research student listing

LeadershipProf Uwe AickelinHead of SchoolA/Prof Jenny WaycottDeputy Head, ResearchProf Adrian PearceDeputy Head, EngagementA/Prof Antonette MendozaDeputy Head, AcademicAnnaliese McPharlinOperations ManagerProf Frank VetereSchool Executive MemberProf Reeva LedermanSchool Executive MemberProf Ben RubinsteinSchool Executive MemberA/Prof Olya OhrimenkoSchool Executive MemberProf Ofir TurelSchool Executive MemberProf Shanika KarunasekeraSchool Executive MemberA/Prof Toby MurraySchool Executive MemberDr Wafa JohalSchool Executive MemberDr Kris EhingerSchool Executive MemberProf Wally SmithSchool Executive MemberSchool email Email: cis-admin@unimelb.edu.auProgram coordinators Given name Family nameProgramProfileEmail
         Artem 
      
         Polyvyanyy 
      
         Master of Information Technology 
      Profile
artem.polyvyanyy@unimelb.edu.au
         Jianzhong 
      
         Qi 
      
         Graduate Research Coordinator (Future Students) 
      Profile
jianzhong.qi@unimelb.edu.au
         Michael 
      
         Kirley 
      
         Master of Data Science 
      Profile
mkirley@unimelb.edu.au
        Libo
      
        Liu
      
         Master of Information Systems 
      Profile
libo.liu@unimelb.edu.au
         Ling 
      
         Luo 
      
         Master of Computer Science, GCert (Computer Science), GDip (Computer Science) & Diploma of Computing / Informatics 
      Profile
ling.luo@unimelb.edu.au
         Patanamon 
      
         Thongtanunam 
      
         Master of Software Engineering 
      Profile
patanamon.t@unimelb.edu.au
         Sarah 
      
         Monazam Erfani 
      
         Graduate Research Coordinator (Current Students) 
      Profile
sarah.erfani@unimelb.edu.auMartinGibbsGraduate Research Coordinator (Current Students)Profilemartin.gibbs@unimelb.edu.au
        Simon
      
        D'Alfonso
      
        Graduate Research Coordinator (Current Students)
      Profiledalfonso@unimelb.edu.auGreg
         Wadley
         BDesign (Digital Technologies),  BDesign (User Experience Design)Profile 
      greg.wadley@unimelb.edu.au
         Chris 
      
         Ewin 
      
         BScience (Computing and Software Systems) 
      Profilecewin@unimelb.edu.au

Secondary school activities
Information on IT activities for high school students is available on the Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology website:

Girl Power in Engineering and IT
A program for female year 9–12 students. It begins with an on-campus camp and offers mentoring, hands on activities, and work experience. For girls interested in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.

Girls’ Programming Network
Introduce your female students to computer programming with our interactive workshops as part of the Girls’ Programming Network, held on campus.

Hands On Engineering and IT
Introduce your Year 10 students to engineering and technology concepts and issues through our one day workshops, offering those with an interest in mathematics, science and technology the opportunity to visit campus and learn through interactive activities.

National Computer Science School (NCSS) Summer School 
The National Computer Science School (NCSS) is a ten-day summer school that brings together talented young people from around Australia for an intensive course of computer programming and website development at university.

Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne has been part of the technology revolution for more than fifty years, and is an international leader in both teaching and research.

Academic computing has a long history at the University of Melbourne, beginning in 1956 with CSIRAC, the first computer in the country.

Our alumni work around the world in a diversity of industries and roles. View profiles of some of our recent graduates.

Information for prospective casual staff on how to apply for work.


