URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/study/programs

HCI programs for potential students: Human-Computer Interaction, The University of Melbourne

Graduate degreesMaster of Information Technology (HCI Specialisation)The Master of Information Technology (MIT) offers a specialised track in Human-Computer Interaction. This is a technical program for those interested in a career in IT. The degree combines computing and design subjects on human-centred design, development, and evaluation of interactive technologies. Students will acquire expertise in fieldwork techniques, design-thinking and user-centred evaluation to create the next generation of interfaces that are useful, usable and satisfying. To join this degree, you will need an undergraduate degree in any discipline, with an average of at least 65% and at least one technical subject focused on computer programming.More information on entry requirementsMaster of Information SystemsThe Master of Information Systems (MIS) is a coursework degree for those interested in professional or research careers in IT management and digital business: professionals supporting, managing and changing business processes through information and communications technology (ICT) and information systems. MIS students are able to enroll in several HCI subjects as electives for their degree. To join this program you will need an undergraduate degree in any discipline, with an average of at least 65%.More information on entry requirementsMaster of Computer ScienceThe Master of Computer Science is a research training program that gives students the opportunity to undertake a year-long research project in a field of choice, as well as a broad range of advanced computer science subjects. This degree is designed for people who want to gain significant experience in research, leading to further study in a PhD, and/or careers in high-level tech companies and R&D labs. To join this program, you will need a degree with a major in Computer Science or equivalent, a weighted average mark of 75% in your undergraduate, and at least 25 points of university level mathematics or statistics subjects.More information on entry requirementsIn the first year of the Master of Computer Science, you will have the freedom to pick electives from a wide range of computing disciplines and in the second year, you will work closely with a faculty member on a research project. If you are interested in doing a research project in Human-Computer Interaction in your second year, we suggest the following subjects in your first year:Subject typeSemester 1Semester 2CoreCOMP90044 Research MethodsCOMP90044 Research MethodsFoundation (HCI)INFO90004 Evaluating the User Experience Foundation (other)COMP90049 Introduction to Machine LearningCOMP90054 AI Planning for AutonomyGEOM90008 Foundations of Spatial InformationCOMP90049 Introduction to Machine LearningCOMP90054 AI Planning for AutonomyGEOM90008 Foundations of Spatial InformationElectives (HCI)INFO90003 Designing Novel InteractionsINFO90006 Fieldwork for DesignINFO90005 Information ArchitectureINFO90007 Social ComputingCOMP90018 Mobile Computing Systems ProgrammingElectives (other)COMP90042 Natural Language ProcessingCOMP90051 Statistical Machine LearningCOMP90051 Statistical Machine LearningGEOM90007 Information VisualisationUndergraduate degreesBachelor of Design (Digital Technologies Major)The Bachelor of Design (major in Digital Technologies) will provide you with practical skills and knowledge that can be applied in a variety of fields associated with design, with a special focus on digital material such as web-based media, mobile media and interactive technologies. The field of digital technologies is focused on human-computer interaction. This includes the study of how people interact with technologies, the design of technology, the Internet of Things, and user experience (UX). It examines how we might ensure that information technology is usable, useful and satisfying to engage with. You will learn the fundamentals of digital technology – including algorithmic, data-oriented and web-based techniques – and develop an understanding of how they can be applied in a range of areas.Bachelor of Science (Computing and Software Systems Major)Whether you are interested in app development, gaming, productivity software, financial products or website development, the Bachelor of Science (major in Computing and Software Systems) will build the knowledge and skills you need for a career in the software industry. You will use programming languages, learn about the systematic processes behind the software development life cycle and gain an appreciation of advanced computing. The Computing and Software Systems major in the Bachelor of Science is accredited by the Australian Computer Society.


