URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/projects/zoos#contact

Kinecting with orang-utans: Human-Computer Interaction, The University of Melbourne

Project overviewDigital technology presents significant opportunities to support zoos in their goals of animal welfare and enrichment. Researchers from the Microsoft Research Centre for Social Natural User Interfaces (SocialNUI) at the University of Melbourne are excited to be collaborating with Zoos Victoria to explore how natural user interface technologies (NUIs) can improve animal wellbeing.Orang-utans are a highly intelligent species critically endangered due to deforestation of their natural habitat for palm oil plantations.  Through our collaborative project we are studying how digital enrichment can improve the welfare of Melbourne Zoo’s 6 orang-utans and building a better understanding of the way orang-utans learn and interact with technology. By studying the design and use of digital enrichment we are seeking to better understand the zoo as a context for human-computer interaction (HCI) research, and develop design methodologies for non-human users.The research team are applying ‘user-centered design’ methods to approach the development of enrichment for orang-utans. This involves observing interactions between orang-utans and keepers as well as conducting interviews and workshops with animal welfare experts, keepers and other personnel, to identify orang-utans’ motivations and interests and define the opportunities for NUIs in this space.Early on in this process, the SocialNUI researchers studied how Melbourne Zoo was utilising technology with the orang-utans. As well as projecting movies into the enclosure, the keepers have explored the use of tablet computers to provide enrichment in the form of puzzles, games, musical instruments and painting. While these activities show the potential for digital enrichment, they are limited as the orang-utans, who would readily break fragile tablet computers, can only interact with their fingertips through metal bars while a zoo keeper holds the tablet outside the enclosure. The current project utilises NUI technologies to give the orang-utans a wider range of ways to interact with technology through more active, full body movement. The proof of concept system was tested in February 2016 at Melbourne Zoo. This solution uses a Microsoft Kinect and a projector placed outside the enclosure, which avoids the need to give the orang-utans physical devices that could be broken. The system projects moving images on to the floor of the orang-utan enclosure. Using custom software, the Microsoft Kinect sensor tracks the orang-utans’ movements and detects their touches and interactions with this area of the floor, so that the projection becomes a large touch-enabled surface.The orang-utans were given complete choice over whether to interact with the system or not, and all trials were overseen by the Zoo’s animal welfare expert. The team developed a variety of games and simple applications for this system. The applications aim to explore how orang-utans prefer to interact with the system, and demonstrate opportunities for enrichment. The games are designed to encourage orang-utans to play, explore and learn about what they can do with the system, building on their natural problem-solving abilities.The games were developed in close collaboration with the zoo keepers, drawing on their knowledge of the orang-utans different personalities, likes and dislikes. For example, researchers discovered that Kiani (Suma), Melbourne Zoo’s 37 year old female orang-utan, loves looking at photos of herself. The team developed an application that showed a gallery of photographs that the orang-utans could browse, select and interact with. The orang-utans have experience of painting on canvas and seem to find this enriching, so a painting application was also developed. Orang-utans’ willingness and ability to use this technology without training or encouragement indicates that it can provide a foundation for diverse cognitive challenges which respond to their individual needs and interests, helping to keep their minds and bodies active.During the trial, the research team interviewed zoo visitors who watched the orang-utans interacting with the system. They found that visitors responded with empathy for the animals, and reflected on what the animals might be thinking and feeling as they interacted with the system. As part of the trial the orang-utans were offered the opportunity to interact with humans through the technology. As orang-utans seem to find humans interesting, the team created a shared digital space where orang-utans could choose to interact safely with keepers and even visitors. In the first trial of a game for humans and orang-utans, the team observed with delight that the orang-utans chose to play even with people they had not met before, creating a powerful sense of connection for the human player.The next phase of this research is to explicitly examine the benefits of digital technology to the orang-utans’ welfare. Zoo personnel and the orang-utan keepers are integrally involved in the design and execution of the study. At the same time, SocialNUI researchers will be conducting a visitor experience study to further examine visitor perceptions of the use of technology by zoo animals.Zoo Technology Research GroupWe facilitate discussion between zoo professionals, technology researchers and specialists in animal welfare and behaviour, through the Zoo Technology Research Group online network. The network was established following the Technology at the Zoo’ workshop, convened by the project team at the CHI2016 conference, in collaboration with pre-eminent zoo-based researchers from around the world.If you are interested in joining the Zoo Technology Research Group, please contact us.CollaborationThis project is a collaboration between the University of Melbourne’s Microsoft Research Centre for Social Natural User Interfaces (SocialNUI) and Zoos Victoria and proudly supported by Microsoft.Project teamSarah Webber, Doreen Thomas Postdoctoral Fellow, School of Computing and Information Systems, The University of MelbourneZaher Joukhadar, Lead Software Engineer, The University of MelbourneMarcus Carter, Department of Media and Communications, University of SydneySally Sherwen, Animal Welfare Specialist, Wildlife Conservation & Science, Zoos VictoriaWally Smith, Associate Professor, School of Computing and Information Systems, The University of MelbourneRuining Dong, Masters Student, The University of Melbourne Contact detailsSarah WebberEmail: s.webber@unimelb.edu.auPublicationsDong, R., Carter, M., Smith, W., Joukhader, Z., Sherwen, S. & Smith, A. (2017) Supporting Animal Welfare with Automatic Tracking of Giraffes with Thermal Cameras In Proceedings of the 29th Australian Conference on Computer-Human Interaction (OzCHI 2017), 28 Nov – 1 Dec, Brisbane, Australia.Webber, S., Carter, M., Smith, W. & Vetere, F. (2017) Interactive technology and human-animal encounters at the zoo International Journal of Human-Computer Studies 98:150–168. [DOI]Webber, S., Carter, M., Sherwen, S., Smith, W., Joukhader, Z. & Vetere, F. (2017) Kinecting with Orangutans: Zoo visitors’ emphathetic responses to animals’s use of interactive technology. In In Proceedings of the 2017 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, Denver, USA. [DOI]Webber, S., Carter, M., Watters, J., Krebs, B., Sherwen, S., Mancini, C., French, F. & O’Hara, K. (2016). HCI Goes to the Zoo: Workshop proposal. In Proceedings of the 2016 CHI Conference Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. [DOI]French, F., Kingston-Jones, M., Schaller, D., Webber, S., Väätäjä, H. & Campbell, M. (2016). Don’t cut to the chase: Hunting experiences for zoo animals and visitors. In ACI '16 Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Animal-Computer Interaction, Article No. 19. [DOI]Pons, P., Carter, M., & Jaen, J. (2016). Sound to your Objects: A Novel Design Approach to Evaluate Orangutans’ Interest in Sound-based Stimuli. In Proceedings of The Third International Congress on Animal Computer Interaction. ACM. [PDF]Webber, S., Carter, M., Smith, W., & Vetere, F. (2016). Interactive Technology and Human-Animal Encounters at the Zoo. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies [DOI] [PDF]Carter, M., Webber, S., & Sherwen, S. (2015). Naturalism and ACI: Augmenting Zoo Enclosures with Digital Technology. In Proceedings of The Second International Congress on Animal Computer Interaction. ACM. [PDF]Rault, J.-L., Webber, S., & Carter, M. (2015). Cross-Disciplinary Perspectives on Animal Welfare Science and Animal-Computer Interaction. In Proceedings of the Second International Congress on Animal Computer Interaction. ACM. [PDF]Media The Age, 1 February 2016Experiment has zoo’s orang-utans seeing red Pursuit, 1 February 2016Kinecting with the orang-utans Gamespot, 1 February 2016Xbox Kinect Being Used by Orangutans at ZooThe Age Newspaper (Print), 2 February 2016Orang-utans get smart with technology Microsoft News, 2 February 2016Kinect empowers Melbourne Zoo orang-utans with digital enrichment New York Daily News, 2 February 2016Xbox Kinect used by orangutans at the Melbourne Futurity, 2 February 2016‘Kinect’ At The Zoo Could Let Orangutans Play Games With Visitors PC & Tech Authority, 2 February 2016Melbourne Zoo’s Orang-utans get access to Kinect-powered apps and games Win Beta, 2 February 2016Microsoft Kinect and Xbox One let orangutans play video games Gizmodo, 2 February 2016Melbourne Zoo’s Orangutans Are Playing Videogames Tech Times, 2 February 2016Experts Let Orangutans At Melbourne Zoo Tinker With Xbox Kinect Mashable Australia, 2 February 2016Scientists are using Xbox Kinect to let orangutans play video games ABC News, 3 February 2016Orangutans in Melbourne Zoo playing interactive videogames using Xbox technologyABC 774 Drive, 3 February 2016Interview with Sarah Webber: Microsoft Research Centre for SocialNUI(at 2hrs 48mins)Channel Ten, 3 February 2016The Project Daily Mail Australia, 3 February 2016Wonder if they’re playing Ape Escape? Zookeepers teach orangutans to play video games to boost their mood ABC Online, 3 February 2016Orangutans in Melbourne Zoo playing interactive videogames using Xbox technology Huffington Post, 4 February 2016Orangutans Learning To Play Xbox To Fight Boredom In ZooTechFlow, 5 February 2016Kinecting with orang-utans News Beat Social, 5 February 2016WATCH: Orangutans Learn to Play Xbox Kinect Channel 7 News, 9 February 2016World-first technology enables highly intelligent orangutan to interact with humans at Melbourne Zoo Zoos Victoria, 9 February 2016World-first study gives orang-utans the choiceThe Courier Mail, 9 February 2016Orang-utans use Xbox tech to interact Channel Ten News, 9 February 2016World first for Melbourne Zoo orangutans Channel Nine News, 10 February 2016Video: Tech savvy orangutans master computer games at Melbourne ZooChannel Seven, 10 February 2016Sunrise Lonely Planet Travel News, 10 February 2016Orangutans in Melbourne Zoo play Xbox for university study Zoonation.org, 12 February 2016Orangutan Gamers BBC, 15 February 2016Orangutans try out motion-controlled games in AustraliaABC News 24, 16 February 2016In a world first program, orangutans are playing interactive video games at Melbourne Zoo, Interview with Dr Marcus Carter ABC Behind the News, 16 February 2016Orangutan Gamers National Geographic, 16 February 2016Melbourne Zoo’s Orangutans are playing video games The Conversation, 14 March 2016Orang-utans play video games too, and it can enrich their lives in the zoo SBS, 15 March 2016Orangutans play video games too, and it can enrich their lives in the zoo ABC TV Good Game Spawn Point, 2 April 2016Feature Story: Melbourne Zoo ABC RN Radio, The Science Show, 23 April 2016Orangutans take to interactive video games The University of Melbourne, 2 May 2016Video: Kinecting with orang-utansHerald Sun, 16 May 2016Video: Melbourne Researchers Develop Interactive Gaming System for Orangutans International Business Times, 16 May 2016Watch zoo orangutans playing Xbox brain games The Wire, 19 May 2016Orangutans: The Future of Gaming? SMH, 28 May 2016Do apes have culture? ABC TV, 19 July 2016ABC TV CatalystOrangutans are highly intelligent animals and keeping them mentally engaged and challenged is paramount for Melbourne zoo keepers and researchers. ABC News, 19 July 2016Orangutans at Melbourne Zoo to be given more video gamesBy Alice Donaldson, Catalyst 8 September 2016Engineering and IT PhD research on show for 3 Minute ThesisThe grand finalists included Sarah Webber from the Microsoft Centre for Social Natural User Interfaces.


