URL: https://people.eng.unimelb.edu.au/lizs/








Liz Sonenberg









 
Liz Sonenberg

 

Contact
·        




























            Postal address:




























        

Professor Liz Sonenberg 
School of Computing
            and Information Systems
The University of
            Melbourne 
          Parkville 3010, Australia 

          Note: news about the University can be found at https://about.unimelb.edu.au/newsroom;
          research stories are highlighted at https://pursuit.unimelb.edu.au/
          ; and items of broad interest from the university sector are
          at http://theconversation.edu.au



Roles: 

I have a full-time Chancellery role as Pro
                Vice Chancellor (Systems Innovation), held across
                Chancellery Research and Enterprise and the Chancellery
                Chief Operating Officer Portfolio.
My current research and supervision
              activities are outlined below. For general enquiries re IT
              programs, including graduate study, see the School of
              Computing and Information Systems www.cis.unimelb.edu.au



Phone:
            

+61 3 9035 8619 

Email: l.sonenberg
            "at" unimelb "dot" edu "dot" au 
Physical Location
            Maps of the Parkville campus of the University of Melbourne
            are here
            and a Google Maps link is here


My PVC office is room 6.03, Level 6, Raymond
              Priestley Building (Building 152)
My School of Computing and Information
              Systems home is on Level 3 of the Melbourne Connect
              building (Building 290)



Research interests
My research interests include the design of reasoning machinery
        for systems that exhibit complex collaborative behaviours. For
        some years my major research efforts have been in the
        foundations and applications of systems within the BDI (Belief,
        Desire, Intention) agent paradigm,
        with a particular focus on teamwork, but I have also studied
        various elements of non-monotonic reasoning.  I have
        collaborated on applied problems with industry colleagues and
        worked with collaborators in Psychology and Education on studies
        involving human reasoning processes. I am a participant in the Human Computer
          Interaction Lab and the AI & Autonomy Lab . 
My particular interests are in: 

Multi-agent




























            systems - especially collaboration and teamwork 
Explanation
























            in Artificial Intelligence
Human-machine
























            interaction in support of decision making

The integrating theme of my research is the
          conceptualisation and construction of more adaptive,
          distributed, and intelligent information systems. Much of the
          work focuses on agent technology, which views a distributed
          system in terms of interacting autonomous software entities.
          Using the agent metaphor can allow system developers to adopt
          a level of abstraction in design that is useful for modelling
          complex tasks and environments, and in building software
          systems that are robust in the face of change and unexpected
          events. An important aspect of the research is the requirement
          of the human-machine interface and consequent implications for
          the development of computational mechanisms to support
          decision-making in complex settings. 
Current and recent projects include:

Explanation




























              in artificial intelligence: a human-centred approach
          - Funded 2019-2021 Australian Research Council - with Frank
          Vetere, Tim Miller, Eduardo Velloso, Piers



























            Howe, Paul Dourish
          (UC Irvine). This project contributes to a broad XAI

























          agenda in the School.

Post-doctoral
            fellow supporting this project was Ronal
              Singh, now at CSIRO


Explanatory
            AI for Maritime Domain Awareness - Funded 2019-2022 DST
          Group - with Tim Miller, Ronal Singh, Michelle Blom, Kerry
          Trentelman (DST Group), Adam Saulwick (DST Group) 



A
              Computational Theory of Strategic Deception -
          Funded 2018-2021 Australian Research Council - with Wally
          Smith, Michael Kirley, Gustav
            Kuhn (University of London), Frank





















              Dignum (Umea
                University, Sweden) 


Post-doctoral fellow supporting this project
              was Peta
                Masters, now at Kings College, London 


Collaborative



























              Human-Agent Planning - Microsoft Research, 2018. With
            Ronal Singh, Tim Miller, Frank Vetere.

"Why?":



























              Causal Explanation in Trusted Autonomous Systems -
            CERA Next Generation Technologies Fund grant. 2017-2018.
            With Tim Miller, Piers Howe (Melbourne School of
            Psychological Sciences), Glennn Moy, Luke Marsh, Darren
            Williams (DST Group). 

Post-doctoral fellow supporting this project
              was Mor
                Vered, now at Monash University  

Foundations














              of human-agent collaboration: situation-relevant
              information sharing- Funded 2013-2015 Australian
            Research Council - with Adrian





























              Pearce Tim Miller and Frank Dignum (then at Universiteit Utrecht) 

Post-doctoral fellows supporting this project
              were Paolo





























                Felli (now at University
              of Bologna) and Christian
                Muise (now at Queens University, Canada) 

Implicit Transmission of Embodied Culture - Funded




























            2010-2012 Australian Research Council - with Yoshi





























              Kashima, Simon




























              Laham, Nick





























              Haslam, Frank




























              Dignum (Universiteit
            Utrecht)
Cross-Community Information Systems:
              Understanding Technology-Practice Fit in Healthcare
            - Funded 2008-2010 Australian Research Council - with Steve
            Howard, Rens Scheepers 
Dynamic personalisation for assisted
              navigation of information rich, physical environments
            - the Kubadji project - Funded
            2007-2009 Australian Research Council - with Tim Baldwin and
            Stephen Bird,  Ingrid Zukerman (Monash University),
            Lawrence Cavedon (RMIT and NICTA) and Carolyn Meehan (Melbourne
              Museum) 
Interest based Negotiation: Theory and
              Practice
            - Funded 2004-2007 Australian Research Council. 


Post-doctoral fellow who supported this
              project was Philippe Pasquier,
              now at Simon Fraser University, Canada



Publications
Information



























          variously available from Google



























            Scholar, DBLP
          (these harvest differently, so have different coverage)

Research students
Important information for prospective research students is here
        (read this before making contact re possible supervision):
I currently co-supervise the following PhD
        student(s): 

Thao














              Le - primary supervisor Tim
              Miller, co-supervisor Ronal














              Singh


Useful resources for research students include:

a
            collection of pointers
            to Advice on Doing a PhD by Robert Dale, Macquarie
            University 
a
            selection of links
            on Research and Writing in Computer Science, Mark
            Leone, CMU 
Videos





            by Simon Peyton-Jones
              on `How to write a great research paper,' and `How to give
              a great research talk'
Common





























              Errors In English by Paul Brians,
            Washington State University 

My PhD graduates:  

Prashan




























          Madumal
            PhD 2021. Explainable Reinforcement Learning Through a
              Causal Lens. Primary supervisor Tim
              Miller, co-supervisor Frank
























              Vetere
Kathleen






















            Keogh PhD 2020. Improvised coordination in agent
            organisations. Cosupervised with Wally Smith

Ronal



























              Singh PhD 2018. Designing for
                Multi-Agent Collaboration: A Shared Mental Model
                Perspective. Cosupervised with Tim
              Miller

Abhi Butchibabu PhD 2016, MIT. Anticipatory
              Communication Strategies for Human-Robot Team Coordination.
            Primary Supervisor was Julie
              Shah (MIT) 
Beth Cardier,
            PhD, 2013. Unputdownable:
              how the agencies of compelling story assembly can be modeled using formalisable methods from
              Knowledge Representation, and in a fictional tale about
              seduction.- primary supervisor Kevin Brophy
            (Faculty of Arts) 
Jens



























              Pfau PhD 2013. Towards Computational Models of
              Cultural Dynamics Based on the Grounding Model of Cultural
              Transmission, primary supervisor Michael Kirley, co-supervisor Yoshi Kashima
            (Psychological Sciences) 
Emma



























              Norling PhD, 2012. Modelling Human Behaviour with
              BDI Agents
Karl




























              Grieser, PhD, 2012. Computing





























              Relationships and Relatedness Between Contextually Diverse
              Entities.- co-supervised
            with Tim Baldwin
Fabian




























            Bohnert, PhD 2010, Monash
            University. Adaptive User Modelling and Recommendation
                in Constrained Physical Environments. Primary
            supervisor was Ingrid



























              Zukerman  (Monash University)
Yen




























            Ting Kuo, PhD, 2010. Mining
Surprising Patterns - cosupervised
            with Andrew Lonie and Adrian Pearce 

Daghan
Acay, PhD 2009. Extrospection: Software
              Agents Reason about the Tools in Their Environment, co-supervised





























            with Gil Tidhar
Fernando Koch PhD
            2009, Utrecht

























              University. An Agent-Based Model for the
              Development of Intelligent Mobile Services 
            primary supervisors John-Jules Meyer
            and Frank
              Dignum 
Samin Karim PhD 2009. Acquiring




























              plans within situated resource-bounded agents: a hybrid
              BDI-based approach (cosupervised
            with Phillipe Pasquier and Clint Heinze)
            
Raymond
              So, PhD 2008. Situation awareness in software
              agents: Theory and practice 
Budhitama Subagdja, PhD 2007. Intentional




























              learning in bounded-rational agents (cosupervised with Iyad Rahwan) 
Iyad Rahwan PhD, 2005. On



























              interest-based negotiation 
Clinton





























            Heinze, PhD 2003. Modelling
              Intention Recognition for Intelligent Agent Systems (cosupervised by Leon Sterling) 
Anne




























            Rouse, PhD 2002. IT outsourcing revisited 
David




























            Kinny, PhD 2001. Fundamentals





























              of Agent Computation Theory: Semantics 
David





























            Morley, PhD 1999. Semantics of Actions, Agents, and
              Environments 
Gil




























            Tidhar, PhD 1999. Organisation





























              Oriented Systems: Theory and Practice 
Todd




























            Mansell, PhD 1995. (cosupervisor
            with G Smith, AAII), Planning under Uncertainty
Wilson




























            Wen, PhD 1991. Information Theory and Probabilistic
              Reasoning

Past students: 

Research/masters students 




Other
My current and past research community and related
          activities include: 

Keynote
          presenter, 23rd International Conference on Autonomous Agents
          and Multi-Agent Systems (AAMAS
            2024), ``Humans
            and Agents: Trajectories and Perspectives,'' selected
          references here

Co-organiser, Agents-Vic
            Autumn Symposium, May 2024
Panel Judge,
          2024 Eureka Prize for Excellence

            in Research Software
Invited
          presenter, Rebellion
            and Disobedience in AI (RaD-AI), AAMAS 2023 Workshop,
          London; reference list here

Panel Judge,
          2023 Eureka Prize for Excellence

            in Research Software

Presenter,
          Monash International


            School in Artificial Intelligence and its Applications in
            Computer Science (ISAAC) 2022, extract of presentation
          slides here

Keynote
          presenter, Bristol



            Interactive AI Summer School (BIAS) 2022, "Imperfectly rational, rationally
              imperfect, or perfectly irrational: challenges for
              human-centred AI." References here

Speaker, Crossley Festschrift Logic Colloquium,
          June 2022, ("Logics and Collaboration")






          YouTube recording (44mins) here.
          References here

Panellist,
          Webinar on Explainable AI, hosted by APRU and Heinrich








            Böll Stiftung, May 2022, recording here
Presenter, CAIDE Explainer
          series, May 2022 "AI in our everyday lives" (Part 1 video [1




          min], Part 2 video [3




          mins], and related article
          in The Conversation) 
Keynote
          speaker, 34th Australasian Joint Conference on Artificial
          Intelligence (AJCAI), Feb
          2022 "Expectation, Surprise and
              Explanation" References here
Presenter, Data61



            DSS Group Seminar, November 2021, "Possible roles of explanation in the
              design of automated decision aids" 

Member, Expert
















            Working Group, 2021 National Research Infrastructure
          Roadmap

Awardee -
          Australasian AI Awards: 2020 Distinguished Research
          Contribution - https://australasian.ai/awards
Member,
          Advisory Board, AAAI AI Magazine, December 2020-  AI Magazine

Presenter, CSIRAC 70th
            Anniversary Celebration, hosted by the Pearcey
          Foundation, November 2019 ("Computing
              the Unexpected" slides here
          and video here)

Member of the
          Standing Committee of the  One Hundred Year Study on
            Artificial Intelligence (AI100) from April 2019
Member,
          Advisory Board Australian Research Data Commons (ARDC), 2018-2019

Area




























            Chair, International Joint Conference on Artificial
            Intelligence IJCAI 2017,
            August 2017, Melbourne Australia
Chair,




























            IFAAMAS Influential




























              Paper Award Panel, 2017 

Invited




            presenter, "Intelligent




              systems for supporting distributed human teamwork,"
            AAAI 2016 Spring Symposium, March 21-23, Stanford,
            California. References here

Member,




























            Committee supporting the U.S. National Academies of Science
            Project Integrating





























              Humans, Machines and Networks: A Global Review of
              Data-to-Decision Technologies Report available (2014):
            Complex





























              Operational Decision Making in Networked Systems of Humans
              and Machines: A Multidisciplinary Approach
Member, Advisory Board,
                Research Data Storage Infrastructure, then Research Data
                Services (RDSI, then RDS), 2013-2018
Director, 
















            Synchrotron Light Source Australia Pty Ltd, 2013-2017
Co-organiser,




























            "Formal Methods for the Informal World," a research
            workshop - March 4th-8th, 2013 at the Lorentz Center, Leiden, The Netherlands -
            details here

Invited




























            Participant, Intelligent Human-Machine Collaboration
              Workshop, Washington June 2012 - summary available -
            National




























              Academies Press - ISBN-10: 0-309-26264-X 
Invited




























            speaker, 14th International Conference on Principles and
            Practice of Multi-Agent Systems (PRIMA-2011),
            Wollongong. November 2011 
General




























            Co-Chair, together with Peter Stone
            (University of Texas at Austin) Tenth International Joint
            Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multi Agent Systems,
            held in Taiwan in May, 2011 

Member,
















            Advisory Board, Australian Urban Research Infrastructure
            Network (AURIN), 2010-2021
Member, Advisory Board, National eResearch
              Collaboration Tools and Resources (NeCTAR), 2010-2019
Director,  Orygen
                Youth Mental Health Pty Ltd, 2009-2015
Editorial
















            Board Member, Knowledge





























              Engineering Review published by Cambridge University
            Press 
Past




























            Co-convenor of the Victorian eHealth Network  
Past




























            Member of the Board of the International





























              Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent
              Systems a non-profit organisation whose purpose is to
            promote science and technology in the area of artificial
            intelligence and multiagent
            systems (2002-2008) 
Senior

























            Program Committee member at numerous AAMAS
            conferences 
Past coordinating

























            editor of the Journal
              of Autonomous Agents and Multiagent
              Systems published by Springer (2003-2018)
Program




























            Co-chair for the Third
              International Joint Conference on Agents and Multi Agent
              Systems hosted in New York in July 2004 
one




























            of the local organisers of the Second
              International Joint Conference on Agents and Multi Agent
              Systems hosted in Melbourne, July 14-18, 2003, and
            also helping to organise the associated Melbourne
              Agent Systems School and Doctoral Consortium. 
Occasional




























            reviewer, Computing




























              Reviews 



Selected PVC Systems
          Innovation activities


Steering
            Committee ERP










              Replacement Program



 


 Liz Sonenberg 
        Updated May 2024 


====================================================================================================

