URL: https://melbconnect.com.au/precinct-retail

Melbourne Connect | Precinct Retail

You can find more details of at: 700 Swanston Retail↗

The Superfloor Cafe

The Superfloor cafe offers a place for members of the precinct to convene over lunch with colleagues or to invite external partners to Melbourne Connect for meetings and networking over coffee.
The cafe offers a full drinks menu, ready-made breakfast snacks, and a full lunch service, with meals to suit every dietary requirement. Open from 8.30am to 4.00pm daily, the friendly staff at the Superfloor cafe are always eager to serve the needs of the precinct and its visitors, giving them the fuel for their next big idea.
Address: Melbourne Connect, Mezzanine Level, 700 Swanston St, Carlton VIC 3053

Science Gallery Cafe

In addition to the amazing exhibits showcasing world-renowned artwork that blurs the lines between science and art, Science Gallery Melbourne plays host to the Science Gallery Cafe. 
Open from Tuesday to Saturday between 11.00am and 5.00pm, Science Gallery Cafe offers the perfect location to relax and unwind after taking in some of the amazing artwork on display. Entering the cafe from Grattan Street, you'll find a wide array of food and beverage options for anything from a quick networking catch-up to a relaxed lunch. 
Address: Science Gallery Melbourne, 114 Grattan St, Carlton VIC, 3053

Schnitz

At Schnitz, our methods are simple but our passion is evident. We don’t compromise on quality and we don’t believe in shortcuts. All our food is handcrafted and made fresh right before your eyes in all of our restaurants.
Address: Shop D, Melbourne Connect, 700 Swanston St, Carlton VIC 3053

Master Lanzhou Noodle Bar

Master Lanzhou Beef Noodle Bar offers the most authentic Chinese beef noodles, as close to what you would experience if you were standing on the streets of Lanzhou city in China’s Gansu province. 
House-made noodles, authentic Chinese beef broth & signature chili oil, 28 hours of Chinese mastery served in just 5 minutes.
Address: Shop F, Melbourne Connect, 700 Swanston St, Carlton VIC 3053

Nene Chicken

“NeNe” simply means “Yes! Yes” in Korean and our network of stores have been serving authentic Korean fried chicken since 1999. With over 1,000 stores across South Korea; today at the heart of our business lies a sense of excitement that translates in the combination of quality produce and memorable service to everyday Australians.
At NeNe Chicken our customers have come to expect deliciously marinated, moist on the inside and crunchy on the outside pieces of chicken served with their choice of Korean sauces that truly represents the culture. Order online or drop into any of our stores for your made-to-order NeNe experience.
Address: Shop H, Melbourne Connect, 700 Swanston St, Carlton VIC 3053

The Studio Beans

The Studio Beans believes that as Melbourne coffee roasters and suppliers of delicious food, they are responsible for providing good, honest produce to the community, where people are able to consume responsibly, consciously and ethically whilst lessening the impact we have on the environment around us.
The Studio Beans lives this philosophy by sourcing ethically, using biodegradable and sustainable packaging and by focusing the menu on vegetarian and plant-based meals.

Call (03) 9035 5553 Email: General Enquiries


