URL: https://melbconnect.com.au/

Melbourne Connect | Melbourne Connect

Play video

                    Your browser does not support the video.
                
THE NEXUS OF INNOVATION
                
                                MELBOURNE CONNECT
                            
Powered by The University of Melbourne in partnership with a consortium led by Lendlease, Melbourne Connect embodies a dynamic collaboration between leading organisations and interdisciplinary institutions aimed at leveraging research and emerging technologies to address global challenges.
By uniting world-class researchers, policymakers, industry experts, entrepreneurs and higher-degree students, Melbourne Connect serves as a purpose-built innovation precinct located at the heart of the Melbourne Biomedical precinct.

Upcoming Events

14 MAY 2024, 5:30PM to 7:00PMFreeThe Future of Legal Practice in the Face of AI with Stuart FullerWhat will be the long-term impacts from economic uncertainty, changing attitudes toward social equity and wealth, aging populations, availability of remote work options and rapidly advancing technology? As part of the Ninian Stephen Law Program, hear expert insights from Stuart Fuller of KPMG Law.8 MAY 2024, 5:30PM to 8:30PM$102024 MAP LaunchPitch nights don't have to be boring, and neither does your Wednesday night. Let's show you how it should be done at the 2024 MAP Launch. ﻿Get set to witness the debut of our next generation of high-performing and ambitious startups, all while being immersed in the vibrant buzz of Melbourne's entrepreneurial scene.9 MAY 2024, 5:30PM to 8:00PMFree - $65Wattle Fellowship Spotlight 2024 #3The Wattle Fellowship invites you to Spotlight 2024: the last of three events that showcase the learnings, development and impact of students involved in our program. You will have the opportunity to hear about the journey and projects fellows have undertaken, and connect with other people passionate about sustainability over food and music.

This Month's Featured Partners

Melbourne Climate FuturesMelbourne Climate Futures connects and amplifies the depth and breadth of The University of Melbourne research, creates a portal to share ideas and collaborate on real action, and empowers the next generation of climate activists. We are committed to leading our national, regional and global communities to a sustainable, safe, fair and equitable climate future.AtomosATOMOS designs pioneering products that transform the way digital film and video content are created around the world. From our range of hardware devices for monitoring and recording, easy-to-use software tools, and intelligent cloud services, we engineer best-in-class technologies and create products for the next generation of filmmakers.World ViewWorld View has a demonstrated record of accomplishments in the stratospheric ballooning industry with more than 120 completed stratospheric flight operations, including flights with 4,700kg and 10,000kg payloads. World View is a vetted and trusted stratospheric operator.

The Latest News

Shadow players sharpen AI weapons in online war, whistleblower warnsThe spiralling sophistication of AI tools conducting “information warfare” is beyond what experts imagined even a year ago, says former Facebook insider Frances Haugen. Speaking in Melbourne, the whistleblower is urging lawmakers and citizens not to concede defeat, but to fight for responsible social media. James Costa reports.Ilana Bean on the Birth of Medical IllustrationFocused on a long-form nonfiction project exploring how medical illustration shapes cultural understandings of the body, Ilana’s residency involves engaging with researchers from across Melbourne Connect. From her insightful exploration, Ilana has written a number of short essays that delve into the intersection of art and science through the lenses of Ernst Haeckel, Andreas Vesalius and Bernhard Siegfried Albinus.Faces of Change: Kath Dolan, Head of Publicity, Events and Partnerships at ClarkeHopkinsClarkeKath Dolan is a freelance journalist and communications consultant, and the Head of Publicity, Events and Partnerships at ClarkeHopkinsClarke Architects, Melbourne Connect’s anchor tenant. She writes regularly for design media including Green magazine and Houses, and works with established and emerging leaders in the arts, business and social impact to tell timely stories of substance.

Event Enquiries
Would you like to host your next meeting, conference, reception, workshop, seminar or exhibition at Melbourne Connect?
Event Spaces
Events from 30 guests or more
In-house basic AV (Lectern and attached microphone, projector, and screen)
Hybrid events and additional AV, available at an additional cost with our preferred suppliers
Catering is available with our exclusive partner, Atlantic Group
To learn more about the space download the venue guide and to reserve a date, please fill out the enquire now form below with some initial details and we will be in touch.

Event Enquiry

Call (03) 9035 5553 Email: General Enquiries


14 MAY 2024, 5:30PM to 7:00PM
Free
The Future of Legal Practice in the Face of AI with Stuart Fuller
What will be the long-term impacts from economic uncertainty, changing attitudes toward social equity and wealth, aging populations, availability of remote work options and rapidly advancing technology? As part of the Ninian Stephen Law Program, hear expert insights from Stuart Fuller of KPMG Law.
8 MAY 2024, 5:30PM to 8:30PM
$10
2024 MAP Launch
Pitch nights don't have to be boring, and neither does your Wednesday night. Let's show you how it should be done at the 2024 MAP Launch. ﻿Get set to witness the debut of our next generation of high-performing and ambitious startups, all while being immersed in the vibrant buzz of Melbourne's entrepreneurial scene.
9 MAY 2024, 5:30PM to 8:00PM
Free - $65
Wattle Fellowship Spotlight 2024 #3
The Wattle Fellowship invites you to Spotlight 2024: the last of three events that showcase the learnings, development and impact of students involved in our program. You will have the opportunity to hear about the journey and projects fellows have undertaken, and connect with other people passionate about sustainability over food and music.
Melbourne Climate Futures
Melbourne Climate Futures connects and amplifies the depth and breadth of The University of Melbourne research, creates a portal to share ideas and collaborate on real action, and empowers the next generation of climate activists. We are committed to leading our national, regional and global communities to a sustainable, safe, fair and equitable climate future.
Atomos
ATOMOS designs pioneering products that transform the way digital film and video content are created around the world. From our range of hardware devices for monitoring and recording, easy-to-use software tools, and intelligent cloud services, we engineer best-in-class technologies and create products for the next generation of filmmakers.
World View
World View has a demonstrated record of accomplishments in the stratospheric ballooning industry with more than 120 completed stratospheric flight operations, including flights with 4,700kg and 10,000kg payloads. World View is a vetted and trusted stratospheric operator.
Shadow players sharpen AI weapons in online war, whistleblower warns
The spiralling sophistication of AI tools conducting “information warfare” is beyond what experts imagined even a year ago, says former Facebook insider Frances Haugen. Speaking in Melbourne, the whistleblower is urging lawmakers and citizens not to concede defeat, but to fight for responsible social media. James Costa reports.
Ilana Bean on the Birth of Medical Illustration
Focused on a long-form nonfiction project exploring how medical illustration shapes cultural understandings of the body, Ilana’s residency involves engaging with researchers from across Melbourne Connect. From her insightful exploration, Ilana has written a number of short essays that delve into the intersection of art and science through the lenses of Ernst Haeckel, Andreas Vesalius and Bernhard Siegfried Albinus.
Faces of Change: Kath Dolan, Head of Publicity, Events and Partnerships at ClarkeHopkinsClarke
Kath Dolan is a freelance journalist and communications consultant, and the Head of Publicity, Events and Partnerships at ClarkeHopkinsClarke Architects, Melbourne Connect’s anchor tenant. She writes regularly for design media including Green magazine and Houses, and works with established and emerging leaders in the arts, business and social impact to tell timely stories of substance.
