URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/colloquium/alumni

Colloquium

Committee 2022

Thomas (Tom) HarrisCo-Conference Chair

Thomas (Tom) Harris

Tom has been at the University of Melbourne since 2015, completing his Bachelor of Science in 2017 and Master of Computer Science in 2021. His research focuses on the factors affecting infectious disease spread in human populations and how we can use agent-based modelling to understand processes related to disease transmission.Outside of study, he loves hiking and cycling.Emailthomash1@student.unimelb.edu.au

Rashika BahlCo-Conference Chair

Rashika Bahl

Responsible for overall management of the conference and Committee. Responsible for co-ordination of applications for funding and sponsorship. Responsibility for hosting industry guests at the DC.Emailrashikab@student.unimelb.edu.au

Susan (Susie) SheldrickMarketing and Public Relations Coordinator

Susan (Susie) Sheldrick

Susan is a Graduate Researcher at the University of Melbourne’s School of Computing and Information Systems. Her research centres on the impact of AI in information systems in regional and remote communities. As a part of the Center for AI and Digital Ethics she also teaches AI, Ethics and Law, and the Ethics of AI. Prior to academia, Susan worked in the local AI industry promoting the local ecosystem and responsible usage of technology.Emailssheldrick@student.unimelb.edu.au

Vincent Barbosa VazWebsite & Registration Coordinator

Vincent Barbosa Vaz

Vincent is a PhD candidate in the School of Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne. His main research interests lie in machine learning and optimisation. His project area explores the interplay between these two fields and how they can be more tightly integrated. Vincent is affiliated to the new ARC Training Centre OPTIMA with the industry partner South East Water. The focus of his applied work is on adapting such a framework to the water sector to make more informed decisions.Outside of study, he can be found at art venues or consuming ice cream (on cold days too).Profile, Emailvbarbosavaz@student.unimelb.edu.au

Xiang (Stella) PengLogistics Chair

Xiang (Stella) Peng

Stella Peng is a PhD candidate in the School of Computing and Information Systems at the University of Melbourne, where she also received her master’s degree in 2020. Her research interests include IT/IS, sustainability, innovation and supply chain management. Now, Stella is exploring IT-enabled sustainability-oriented innovations in her PhD.Stella loves to spend her spare time with her cat Nikko and always has tons of cat hairs on her clothes. So please take care if you are allergic to cat hair when physically approaching Stella  :-)Emailxiang.peng@student.unimelb.edu.au

Chenyang (Peter) WangProgram & Publications Chair

Chenyang (Peter) Wang

Handles the Call for Papers. Review of all papers to be shared by all Committee members. Assists in the scheduling of sessions and rooms. Prepares posters and slides for the sessions.Emailchenyangw3@student.unimelb.edu.au

Laura JuliffResearch Project Officer

Laura Juliff

Laura is a research project officer in the School of Computing and Information Systems (CIS) at the University of Melbourne.Emaillaura.juliff@unimelb.edu.au

@cis_dc
@unimelb_cis_dc
fb.me/melbcisdc


