URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/about/school

About the School of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne

For more than fifty years, our people have shaped the global technology revolution. From commissioning Australia’s first computer, to managing the first internet connections, we’ve seen what’s possible when the world’s greatest minds are empowered to push the boundaries of technology.Today our people remain at the forefront of innovation, rapidly developing the technologies that will shape our future.We invite you to join us and play your part in building tomorrow.See rolesWhy join the School of Computing and Information Systems (CIS)At CIS, we know what’s possible when the world’s greatest minds are empowered to push the boundaries of technology. For half a century we have pioneered the way information and computing systems are used and have fundamentally changed human life. This is why we were ranked number 1 in Australia and 39th in the world in the 2021 QS World University Rankings.Today, we’re looking to foster the next wave of great talent to have their chance at building tomorrow.The significant growth of the School is due to our bold 10-year strategy to transform the future of engineering and IT at the University. It is the perfect time to join our School of Computing and Information Systems, and be empowered to be your best. As we open the gates to a new cohort of inspiring academics and researchers, we invite you to help us shape the future of our School.We value curiosity, passion and a strong desire to learn. If you are seeking a place that fosters the brightest minds and biggest thinkers, then CIS is the place for you.Life in MelbourneIt’s no secret that Melbourne has been crowned the ‘world’s most liveable city’ on more than one occasion. Here is why.Learn moreThe 2025 stategyLearn about our 10-year strategic plan aimed at transforming and future proofing our school. We’re heavily investing across our student experience, research, an increased and a diversified footprint and a greater impact and engagement with industry, government and our communities.Learn moreLearn how we hireWe know that ultimately, to achieve our 2025 ambition, it is our people who will make the big difference. Read more on our FAQs around how we hire.Learn more Prof Uwe Aickelin, Head of School A message from our Head of SchoolOur School is made distinctive by our history, the breadth of our interests, and the depth of our achievement; which has been sustained for decades now. It’s an exciting, friendly place, where everyone is always aware that a new and groundbreaking achievement is just around the corner.As our school grows, so to do the opportunities available for our students and staff. IT is the perfect choice for those interested in venting their curiosity, imagination and creativity in a way which will positively effect those around them. At  CIS  , we have so many opportunities to collaborate and the ability to make an impact on every facet of human life. Tasks that used to be extremely difficult, if not impossible, are now becoming everyday reality thanks to the magic of Computer Science. It’s the new force powering knowledge and technology everywhere in society and you have the fantastic opportunity to join our team of pioneers and leaders in this field.Our hope is for our students to leave here bursting with enthusiasm for the subject and with ideas that will transform the world over coming decades, with capabilities that are greatly in demand with prospective employers and the future. Our academics are continually going to places no-one has ever gone before, working in research that is both enjoyable and exciting.At CIS we know that computing and information technologies lie at the heart of innovation and invite you to join us for this revolution.What we offerWhen you work with us you get more than a chance to build the future.We value, support and respect the unique views, knowledge and individual experience of our staff. We are committed to supporting them to realise their potential. Our benefits are aimed at recognising and rewarding those contributions:Flexible workingSubsidised facilities including gym and parkingDiscounts for medical, optometry and dental treatment, veterinary services, and health insuranceExceptional personal and professional developmentHelp build the future of one of the world’s most liveable cityMoving to MelbourneIt’s no secret that Melbourne has been crowned the ‘world’s most liveable city’ on more than one occasion. Having gained top scores in sustainability, healthcare, arts and culture, sports, environment, education and infrastructure. Join us at the beautiful and historic campus locations on the fringe of the Melbourne CBD, surrounded by industry leaders at both our Melbourne Connect campus and our future Fishermens Bend Campus.Melbourne is an incredibly unique place, hosting diverse communities, with 58 percent of the population having either both or one parent born overseas and approximately one-third of all households speaking two or more languages. If you are after a sea change, or the chance to grow and network with some of the world’s greatest academics, here is your chance to do it in one of the world’s most pleasant cities to live in.More information on moving to MelbourneWho we’re looking forWe are creating the entrepreneurial leaders and technology of the future – the people and things that will drive innovation and productivity to make a sustainable impact on the world in which we live. If you value creativity, inclusion and diversity as well as courageous new thinking, openness and engagement which ignites a passion to help build a better world for our future, we offer you to be part of something big, to join an IT school that is truly global. We are excited that your journey with CIS is about to start!


