URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/research

Research: Human-Computer Interaction, The University of Melbourne

Our mission: To create the next generation of interactive technologies.We are a world-leading group of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) researchers who study, teach and are fascinated by issues arising from humans interacting with emerging technologies. Our group has strong foundations in both qualitative and quantitative methods, and brings together cutting-edge technology design with development. Our state-of-the-art facilities enable us to create and study the next generation of interactive technologies, which we validate in a number of important application areas.View our publications

Research themes

Bringing together researchers who develop interactive technologies to augment our everyday environments.

Developing novel technologies that move beyond the desktop computing paradigm. The topics we work on include context awareness, sensing techniques, smartphone technologies, wearables, the Internet of Things, mobility analysis, and smart environments.

Seeking to support citizens to take control of their health, to help health professionals get treatment to more people more efficiently, and to help health systems cope with increasing loads.

We investigate how digital technologies can be designed to help people enjoy, appreciate and learn about the natural world.

Designing and developing prototypes using new interactive devices, including, but not limited to: virtual, augmented, and extended reality, eye tracking, physiological sensors, 3D printing, motion capture, projection mapping, interactive AI and machine learning.

Investigating how new technologies can be designed and used to support people’s wellbeing and social connectedness in later life.

Exploring the ways that people experience and create games and playful experiences; and seeking to understand how technology supports these activities.

Creating and evaluating sociotechnical systems that help mediate communication and collaboration between people.

Our group is interested in the nexus of humans, technology and information. Having the right information at the right time is key to autonomy, decision making, and modern democracy.

Our work brings together research from human-computer interaction, robotics, and AI to develop a robotics system that adapts to humans autonomously.

All research projects Seminars


