URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/projects/video-calls

Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home: Human-Computer Interaction, The University of Melbourne

 Project overviewLiving apart from family and friends either temporarily or permanently due to work, study or other commitments is common in today’s society. To cope with this, people use different methods, including video calls, to maintain their connections with others. Although video call technologies such as Skype, Facetime, and Google Hangouts are widely used on personal devices, studies show that they are still far from supporting the flexibility that video callers need and want.Recent studies have shown that video callers frequently perform activities in parallel to their video call conversations, and more importantly, they share their activities and episodes of their everyday life through video calls. For example, video callers have been found to walk around the house and do light house chores and even cook while on a video call, or remotely attend a birthday party via a video call. However, video call technologies are not specifically designed to support such activities and experiences. Managing these activities therefore raises challenges for video callers regarding mobility, having to hold the device, managing the video frame, optimising the audio, etc, which can make interactions cumbersome.This project investigates how the design of video call technologies can mitigate these problems and support the flexibility required for video callers to seamlessly engage in other activities while on a video call.The research team is undertaking studies on the use of video call technologies by observing how friends and families use the technology at home in their natural settings. We are studying state of the art technologies, such as Skype on Xbox One, as well as the typical video call technologies people use on personal devices, such as Skype and Hangouts.This research will contribute knowledge to the field of video-mediated communication by understanding video callers’ needs and providing design guidelines for supporting them.Project teamBehnaz Rostami Yeganeh, PhD Candidate, Microsoft Research Centre for SocialNUI, The University of MelbourneFrank Vetere, Professor, The University of MelbourneKenton O’Hara, Research Scientist, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK & Principal Fellow, The University of MelbourneContact details Behnaz Rostami YeganehEmail:brostami@student.unimelb.edu.auProf Frank VetereEmail: f.vetere@unimelb.edu.auPublicationsRintel, S., O’Hara, K., Yeganeh, B. R. & Rädle, R. (2015) Ad hoc adaptability in video-calling. In ITS 2015 Workshop on Interacting with Multi-Device Ecologies in the Wild. Madeira, Portugal. [PDF]Fisk, L., Carter, M., Yeganeh, B. R., Vetere, F., & Ploderer, B. (2014) Implicit and explicit interactions in video mediated collaboration, In Proceedings of the Australian Computer-Human Interaction Conference (OzCHI 2014). New York: ACM Press, pp. 250–259 [PDF, DOI]MediaMUSSE, Melbourne University Staff / Student E-news, 16 September 2016HCI Internship at Microsoft Research Cambridge for SocialNUI studentPhD candidate Behnaz Rostami Yeganeh has recently completed a three-month internship at the Microsoft Research Cambridge Lab in the United Kingdom. Technogaze, 23 May 2015Interview with Behnaz Rostami Yeganeh on Video Conferencing ResearchBehnaz Rostami Yeganeh was invited to Technogaze program broadcasted in Joy Radio to talk about her research into video calls. Technogaze is a weekly program that talks about state of the art technologies. 29 November 2013OzCHI 2013 Student Design ChallengeBehnaz Rostami Yeganeh participated in the annual 24-hour student design challenge at the OzCHI 2013 conference. As part of the Technophiliacs team (ozchi24techno.tumblr.com) from the University of Melbourne, she worked on an innovative design for the future of email. Behnaz as the representative of the team presented their design at the OzCHI 2013 conference and the team was awarded the second prize.


