URL: https://people.eng.unimelb.edu.au/wzhao10



Wei Zhao - The University of Melbourne



























01_about
02_projects
03_publications
04_education
05_experience
06_teaching
07_contacts



















Wei Zhao
PhD Student in Human-computer Interaction

















Hello! I’m a PhD student in the Human-Computer Interaction
                                    Group at the University of Melbourne. I'm supervised by Associate Professor Jenny
                                    Waycott,
                                Dr Ryan Kelly,
                                and Dr Melissa Rogerson.
                                My current research topic is about designing digital systems for
                                supporting older adults' engagement in meaningful activities. Research Interests:
                                Human-computer Interaction, Computer-supported Cooperative Work, Social Computing,
                                Ageing and Technology, Digital Health, Mixed Reality.
download
                            cv
Featured publications:

Zhao, W., Kelly, R., Rogerson, M., & Waycott, J. (2023). Older Adults
                                Using Technology for Meaningful Activities During COVID-19: An Analysis Through the Lens
                                of Self-Determination Theory. In Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors
                                in Computing Systems.
                            


Zhao, W., Kelly, R., Rogerson, M., & Waycott, J. (2022). Understanding
                                Older Adults’ Participation in Online Social Activities: Lessons from the COVID-19
                                Pandemic. In Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (CSCW 2022).
                            


View all
                                publications












Projects.










Improving the Design of Video Calling Applications for Older Adults: A Field Trial of Dossy

This project aims to improve the design of video calling systems for older adults living independently in the community. While there are commercial video calling systems that have widespread societal take-up (e.g., Zoom), these systems are not designed to meet the needs of older people living independently. To understand how video calling systems should be designed for older people, we conduct a field trial to evaluate Dossy, a video calling app that has been designed with the needs and capabilities of older adults in mind. By studying participants’ experiences of using Dossy, the project produces new knowledge about how video calling applications can support social connectedness for older adults. 

View project details








Designing Digital Technologies for Older Adults’ Online Social
                                Engagement in Personally Meaningful Activities

The aim of this research is to understand how digital
                                technologies should be designed to support older adults' online social engagement in
                                personally meaningful activities. We will use a Research through Design approach to
                                explore the research questions, which employs the methods and processes of design
                                practices with the intention of generating new knowledge. The results of the research
                                will include the design and evaluation of a prototype of a system for older adults’
                                online social engagement in personally meaningful activities. It will also reveal design
                                opportunities and considerations for older adults’ future online engagement in social
                                activities. 

View project details








Using digital technologies to maintain the social engagement
                                of older adults living independently: experiences from COVID-19

This study aims to investigate how older adults have been using
                                technologies to maintain social engagement, especially during COVID-19 lockdowns, and to
                                understand their experiences and perceptions of technology-mediated social
                                engagement. COVID-19 has created opportunities for activities to be organised in digital
                                forms. To inform the design of future tools to support older adults’ social engagement,
                                it is crucial to understand the innovative
                                practices that enabled older adults to stay socially engaged, and to gain insight into
                                older adults’ experiences with online social activities.

View project details








Emerging Technologies for Enrichment in Old Age: A Critical
                                Perspective

The overall goal of this project is to generate knowledge about
                                older adults’ experiences with emerging technologies used for social and emotional
                                enrichment. Through in-depth investigations, this research program seeks to
                                identify empirically informed strategies for good practice in the design and deployment
                                of emerging technologies for enrichment in old age. Here is a recent news article
                                published on Australian Ageing Agenda about this
                                project: Tech Design Needs to Focus on Residents.

View Project Details








Challenges of Deploying VR in Aged Care: A Two-Phase
                                Exploration Study
                            
OzCHI '20: 32nd Australian Conference on Human-Computer
                                Interaction
This is a master project that aimed to explore the challenges of
                                deploying VR technology in aged care settings. Phase one involved a thematic analysis of
                                video recordings of 14 VR sessions, during which five residents of an
                                aged care facility were invited to experience and interact with VR systems. Phase two
                                aimed to explore the challenges further by analyzing semi-structured interviews with 11
                                staff members who had experience in coordinating
                                VR activities in aged care homes. The results revealed a range of issues that need to be
                                considered when deploying VR systems in aged care settings.

Read the
                                    article















Publications.



Please see my  Google Scholar profile  for citations.

2024



Wei Zhao, Ryan M. Kelly, Melissa J. Rogerson, and Jenny Waycott. 2024.  Older Adults
                                        Imagining Future Technologies in Participatory Design Workshops: Supporting Continuity in the Pursuit of Meaningful Activities. In Proceedings of the 2024 CHI
                                        Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '24).

2023



Wei Zhao, Ryan M. Kelly, Melissa J. Rogerson, and Jenny Waycott. 2023.  Older Adults
                                        Using Technology for Meaningful Activities During COVID-19: An Analysis Through
                                        the Lens of Self-Determination Theory. In Proceedings of the 2023 CHI
                                        Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '23).


Wei Zhao, Ryan M. Kelly, and Jenny Waycott. 2023. Technology Deployment for
                                        Social Connection in Residential Aged Care: Care and Technology Providers'
                                        Experiences During the COVID-19 Pandemic. In Extended Abstracts of the
                                        2023 CHI
                                        Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '23).

2022


Wei Zhao, Ryan M. Kelly, Melissa J. Rogerson, and Jenny Waycott. 2022. 
                                        Understanding older adults' participation in online social activities: lessons
                                        from
                                        the COVID-19 pandemic. In Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer
                                        Interaction (CSCW). ACM, New York, NY, USA. Honorable Mention for Best Paper Award (Top 4% of
                                        Submissions)


Jenny Waycott, Wei Zhao, Ryan M. Kelly, and Elena Robertson. 2022. Technology-mediated enrichment in
                                        aged
                                        care: survey and interview study. Journal of Medical Internet Research:
                                        Aging. 5(2):e31162. DOI: https://doi.org/10.2196/31162 

2021


Wei Zhao. 2021. Ubiquitous Music-making:
                                        A Critical Review.  In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference
                                        on Audio Mostly (AM ’21). https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3478384.3478391

2020


Wei Zhao, Steven Baker, and Jenny Waycott. 2020. Challenges of Deploying VR in Aged
                                    Care: A Two-Phase Exploration Study. In proceedings of the 32nd Australian
                                    Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (OzCHI '20).













Education.







2021-2024

Doctor of Philosophy (Engineering and IT), The University of Melbourne, Australia
                            

My PhD research is in the field of Human-computer Interaction. understanding human behaviour through quantitative and qualitative techniques and applying user-centred approaches to the engineering and design process of computer systems and products.
        



2018-2020

Master of Information Technology with Distinction, The University of Melbourne, Australia

Core Subjects: Evaluating the User Experience, Fieldwork for Design, Designing Novel Interactions, Mobile Application Development, Web Information Technologies, Java Programming, Algorithm, Database Management, Computer Network, Distributed
                System, HCI project.



2014-2018

Bachelor of Public Relations, Communication and Media Studies, Sun Yat-sen University, China

Core Subjects: Social Psychology, Digital Media Technology, Communication Theory, VI Design, Advertising, Interpersonal Communication, Marketing, Corporate Crisis Management, Social Science Research Methods, Big Data Analysis, Visual
                Cultural Studies.
                 Academic Performance: Top 5% / 2016-2017 Outstanding Student Scholarship.
            


















Experience.










Research Assistant

I'm working as a research assistant in a research project that explores the use of digital technologies for social enrichment and connection in aged care.


I'm working as a research assistant in a research project that explores the use of digital technologies for social enrichment and connection in aged care. The overall goal of this project is to generate knowledge about
                                    older adults’ experiences with emerging technologies used for social and emotional enrichment. Through in-depth investigations, this research program seeks to identify empirically informed strategies for good practice
                                    in the design and deployment of emerging technologies for enrichment in old age. Knowledge generated will inform the future ethical design and use of emerging technologies to benefit the social and emotional wellbeing
                                    of older adults, particularly those in advanced old age.
Check the project detail:
Emerging
                                            Technologies for Enrichment in Old Age: A Critical Perspective













Academic Peer Review

I have experience in reviewing papers for a number of conferences and journals in the field of human-computer interaction, including CHI, CSCW, ToCHI, OzCHI, and Australasian Journal on Ageing (AJA).


I have experience in reviewing papers for a number of conferences and journals in the field of human-computer interaction. I'm particuarly experienced in reviewing HCI research papers using qualitative methods, such as interview or ethnographic studies.
                                
Check my reviewing history:
Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (CSCW)
Australian Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (OZCHI)
The ACM CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI)
The Australasian Journal on Ageing (AJA) 
Social Sciences & Humanities 
Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI)












Student Volunteer

I'm actively participating in student volunteering at academic conferences. I have participated in student volunteering of HCI major conferences, including CHI and CSCW.


I'm actively participating in student volunteering at academic conferences. I volunteered in the accessibility support group at CHI 2021 conference. The CHI 2021 was organised online and reached the highest number of audience
                                    (5000+) in its history. My main responsibilities included accessibility standby, accessibility session support and quick response. I was also a student volunteer of the CSCW 2021 conference. My main job duty includes
                                    sesson support and quick responses.
                                













UX/UI Design

I have internship experience as a UX/UI designer. I'm familiar with mainstream tools used in the industry, including Adobe XD, Sketch, and Adobe PS.


I was involved in the design and development process of LitFitness, a fitness mobile app. I was mainly responsible for competitor research and analysis, product function design, UI interface design and product usability
                                    optimization. My product deliveries included competitor analysis report and UI design proposal.











Research Interests: Human-computer Interaction, Computer-supported Cooperative Work, Social Computing, Ageing and Technology, Mixed Reality.









Digital Marketing

I have work experience in the field of digital marketing. My role included management of social media accounts, creation of video and texual promotional content, and competitor analysis.


I was responsible for managing several digital marketing platforms including WeChat and YouTube. I built a WeChat public account from scratch and gained 3000+ followers and over 100,000 views. The YouTube Channel I created
                                    gained more than 10,000 views and 2,000 followers. The marketing platforms generated numerous high-quality business consultations that contributed to sales numbers.



















Teaching.






Graduate Coursework Tutoring



INFO90004 Evaluating the User Experience
This subject concerns the methods and techniques that are used to identify what characterises UX and how you can recognise, measure and evaluate it in a variety of contexts. This entails a deep understanding of the
                                        psychological and social theories underlying UX, combined with practical knowledge of the various industry methods and tools currently in use. In terms of practice, an emphasis is placed on learning the skills needed
                                        to design, justify and conduct appropriate evaluations, and the interpretation of findings.


INFO90006 Fieldwork for Design
This subject introduces students to the theories and methods used to understand people and settings for designing technical systems. The subject will equip students with the knowledge and skills needed to gather information
                                        about people and activities, to understand the intended users of the systems, and to use the insights gained from this process to identify design requirements.
                                    


INFO900010 Technology Innovation Project
This subject involves an in-depth innovation investigation under the supervision of a member of the academic staff and in the context of the University's engagement initiatives. Students working in groups will be required
                                        to perform research, customer and problem discovery, ideation, concept creation and validation, and technical implementation for a real-world challenge. The subject also provides students with skills and knowledge
                                        for improving written and oral communication.







Undergraduate Coursework Tutoring



INFO10003 Fundamentals of Interaction Design
How do you design interactive technologies that are useful, usable and satisfying? How can we better understand user needs in order to inform the design of new technologies? Fundamentals of Interaction Design addresses
                                        these questions, and students will learn about the key theories, concepts and industry methods that are crucial to the user-centred design process.


INFO20004 Usability Evaluation Methods
In this subject, students will build on the foundational material from the prerequisite subject Fundamentals of Interaction Design to learn the key industry methods and tools used to conduct usability evaluations and
                                        develop understanding about when these methods should be applied and how to interpret their findings.

















Contact.



wzhao10@student.unimelb.edu.au
Google Scholar Page
ORCID:
                    0000-0002-4025-6639














Level 5, Melbourne Connect
700 Swanston Street, Carlton, 3053
The University of Melbourne, Australia




Your name

Your e-mail

Message text


send a
                            message









* Papers listed on this site are the author's version of the work.It is posted here for personal use. Not for redistribution.











====================================================================================================

