URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/study/graduate

Graduate programs: School of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne

Graduate coursework

Master of Information Systems
A degree for aspiring and current practitioners and consultants in digital business: professionals supporting, managing and changing business processes through information and communications technology, and information systems.

Master of Information Technology
A program for creative students who are passionate about cutting edge technology and its applications in solving real world problems across all areas of business, government, and society. It is available in these specialisations: Computing, Distributed Computing, Human Computer Interaction, and Spatial.

Master of IT Management (Executive)
An online course designed to produce strategic leaders in the field of information systems and digital business. The course offers a wide range of subject areas, including IT strategy, emerging technologies, information assurance, and outsourcing and contracting.

Master of Applied Data Analytics
Designed to meet the growing demand for information analysis across various sectors, this course will help you develop a better understanding of analytics technology. You will learn how to analyse vast amounts of data to make better organisational decisions and forecasts.

Master of Computer Science
Exploring the technologies that are driving global innovation, through advanced coursework and a research project in one of the three core areas of distributed and parallel computing; declarative languages; and knowledge technologies.

Master of Data Science
The management and analysis of big data is becoming increasingly important in commerce, industry and applied science. Data science is a rapidly growing field that has evolved to address this need and sits at the intersection of statistics and computer science.

Master of Mechatronics Engineering
Mechatronics engineering blends the disciplines of mechanical, electrical and software engineering around the principles of control systems and automation.

Master of Science (Bioinformatics)
The goal of bioinformatics is to understand complex biological data and processes by developing and applying advanced computational techniques such as data mining and machine learning, biostatistics, molecular and systems modelling, and visualisation.

Master of Software Engineering
Software engineers combine an understanding of computer science, design, engineering management, mathematics and psychology to manage the development, maintenance and production of large scale software systems.

Master of Spatial Engineering
Surveying and spatial information engineers are measurement experts, who map assets, infrastructure and cultural heritage, and track locations of moving objects.


