URL: https://melbconnect.com.au/events/the-future-of-legal-practice-in-the-face-of-ai-with-stuart-fuller

Melbourne Connect | The Future of Legal Practice in the Face of AI…

What is it
What will be the long-term impacts from economic uncertainty, changing attitudes toward social equity and wealth, aging populations, availability of remote work options and rapidly advancing technology? As part of the Ninian Stephen Law Program, hear expert insights from Stuart Fuller of KPMG Law.
When

                    14/05/2024
                            5:30pm
                -
                7:00pm
                        
Where

Matthaei Room, 112 University House Professors' Walk, The University of Melbourne, Parkville

        Free
    
Book now

The Future of Legal Practice in the Face of AI with Stuart Fuller
Today’s legal teams are wrestling with a wide array of challenges stemming from changes in the workforce and workforce law. Economic uncertainty, changing attitudes toward social equity and wealth, aging populations, availability of remote work options and rapidly advancing technology are all having profound effects on the workplace, leading to evolving approaches to regulation and new dynamics in the balance of power between management and workers.
What will be the long-term impacts? Here are the top 10 predictions.
This event is part a seminar series, hosted by the Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Digital Ethics's Ninian Stephen Law Program, powered by the Menzies Foundation.
Presenters
Stuart Fuller Global Head of Legal ServicesKPMG International
Stuart joined as the Head of KPMG Law in March 2018, and was appointed the Global Head of Legal Services in August 2019. An acknowledged leader in the global legal market, Stuart brings deep industry insight, cultural intelligence, commercial acumen and superior execution skills to lead KPMG’s global legal services businesses. KPMG Law is an integrated, multidisciplinary adviser with more than 80 jurisdictions and around 4,000 lawyers. Stuart has outstanding international experience, understands the demands of cross-border transactions and the pressures of operating in a global environment but also brings the local view from his excellent track record in both the Australian and Asia-Pacific legal and business markets.

Other events you may like

25 MAY to 2 JUN 2024, 10:00AM to 1:00PMFreeBeyond HousingBeyond Housing invites us to consider the links between architectural design practice, research, and education. The exhibition celebrates the work of the Design Studio Epsilon, the undergraduate capstone design subject for Melbourne School of Design’s Bachelor of Design students majoring in Architecture. It showcases 32 selected student works produced over the past four years.30 MAY 2024, 5:00PM to 6:30PMFreeAdventures in Designing with CountryHow are commercial design practices and their clients embedding Designing with Country into their processes and cultures? How are universities preparing design students to meet our industry's new core competencies? It’s the ethical, ecological and energy challenge and opportunity of our lifetimes, and we’re all learning step by step, project by project, conversation by conversation. ﻿28 MAY 2024, 12:00PM to 1:00PMFreeStudent Precinct: Indigenous Engagement in Art and Design Featuring an array of artworks, designs and installations that celebrate cultural narratives, go on a tour of the remarkable site with Georgie Meagher, Senior Development Manager from The University of Melbourne, where you will uncover the co-design process and the meaningful outcomes of an environment thoughtfully developed with respect for the land.

Call (03) 9035 5553 Email: General Enquiries


25 MAY to 2 JUN 2024, 10:00AM to 1:00PM
Free
Beyond Housing
Beyond Housing invites us to consider the links between architectural design practice, research, and education. The exhibition celebrates the work of the Design Studio Epsilon, the undergraduate capstone design subject for Melbourne School of Design’s Bachelor of Design students majoring in Architecture. It showcases 32 selected student works produced over the past four years.
30 MAY 2024, 5:00PM to 6:30PM
Free
Adventures in Designing with Country
How are commercial design practices and their clients embedding Designing with Country into their processes and cultures? How are universities preparing design students to meet our industry's new core competencies? It’s the ethical, ecological and energy challenge and opportunity of our lifetimes, and we’re all learning step by step, project by project, conversation by conversation.
28 MAY 2024, 12:00PM to 1:00PM
Free
Student Precinct: Indigenous Engagement in Art and Design
Featuring an array of artworks, designs and installations that celebrate cultural narratives, go on a tour of the remarkable site with Georgie Meagher, Senior Development Manager from The University of Melbourne, where you will uncover the co-design process and the meaningful outcomes of an environment thoughtfully developed with respect for the land.
