URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/hci/projects/ambivalence#overview





Social Networking Sites for Ambivalent Socialisers: Human-Computer Interaction, The University of Melbourne













































        Skip to main content
      





Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisersProjectsHuman-Computer InteractionSchool of Computing and Information Systems


School of Computing and Information Systems



Human-Computer Interaction



Projects



Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers





Search

Menu










Go







Close







Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
The Case of Smoking Cessation

On this pageProject overviewProject informationPublicationsWorkshops organisedMedia reportsContact details
Project overview Social network sites and Web 2.0 technologies generally are among the most significantdevelopments in information technology in the past decade. The aim of this projectis to extend their reach to ambivalent socialisers: groups of people that do notform spontaneously on social network sites but which might nevertheless benefitfrom online participation.We collaborate with Quit Victoria to develop an empirically derived understandingof ambivalent socialisers in the context of smoking cessation, and we will deploysocial networking technologies to illustrate the benefits of online participationsuch as social support.Quitting smoking? Try our mobile app!Do you want to try out a new app that offers stories, tips and distractions to inspire and support you in your quit attempt? We are now looking for participants who own an Internet-enabled phone and who are planning to quit (or have just quit) in order to try the app over several weeks and to comment on it in a diary and through interviews.Research teamWally SmithBernd PlodererJon PearceRon BorlandGreg WadleySarah WebberProject information Funding source ARC Linkage Project  Project time frame 2011–2014 PublicationsPloderer, B., Smith, W., Pearce, J., & Borland, R. (in press). An object-centred approach to encourage online participation in the context of behaviour change. Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW). DOIWadley, G., Smith, W., Ploderer, B., Pearce, J., Webber, S., & Whooley, M. (2014). What people talk about when they talk about quitting. In Proceedings of the Australian Computer-Human Interaction Conference (OzCHI 2014). New York: ACM Press.Smith, W., Wadley, G., Webber, S., Ploderer, B., & Lederman, R. (2014). Unbounding the Interaction Design Problem: the Contribution of HCI in Three Interventions for Well-being. In Proceedings of the Australian Computer-Human Interaction Conference (OzCHI 2014). New York: ACM Press.Paay, J., Kjeldskov, J., Brinthaparan, U., Lichon, L., Rasmussen, S., Srikandaraja, N., Smith, W., Wadley, G., & Ploderer, B. (2014) Quitty: Using Technology to Persuade Smokers to Quit. In Proceedings of the Nordic Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (NordiCHI 2014).Ploderer, B., Reitberger, W., Oinas-Kukkonen, H., van Gemert-Pijnen, J. (2014). Social interaction and reflection for behaviour change. Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, 18(7), 1667-1676. DOIPloderer, B., Smith, W., Pearce, J., & Borland, R. (2014). A Mobile App Offering Distractions and Tips to Cope With Cigarette Craving: A Qualitative Study. JMIR mHealth uHealth, 2(2), e23.  PDF,  DOIPloderer, B., Smith, W., Howard, S., Pearce, J.,& Borland, R. (2013). Patterns of support in an online community for smoking cessation. In Proceedings of the Conference on Communities and Technologies (C&T 2013) (pp. 26-35). New York: ACM Press. DOIPloderer, B., Smith, W., Howard, S., Pearce, J., & Borland, R. (2012). Ambivalence about (Inter)Personal Informatics for Smoking Cessation. In CHI 2012 Workshop on Personal Informatics in Practice: Improving Quality of Life Through Data, Austin, TX.Ploderer, B., Smith, W., Howard, S., Pearce, J., & Borland, R. (2012). Introducing the ambivalent socialiser. In Proceedings of the Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2012). New York: ACM Press. PDF, DOIPloderer, B., Smith, W., Howard, S., Pearce, J., & Borland, R. (2012). The “we-to-we” design of a social media application for smoking cessation. In SmartHealth 2012 Workshop at OZCHI 2012, Melbourne, Australia.Ploderer, B., Smith, W., Howard, S., Pearce, J., & Borland, R. (2012). Things you don’t want to know about yourself: Ambivalence about tracking and sharing personal information for behaviour change. In Proceedings of the Australian Computer-Human Interaction Conference (OzCHI 2012). New York: ACM Press. PDF, DOIWorkshops organisedRoecker, C., Wadley, G., Ziefle, M., Holzinger, A., Ploderer, B., Lederman, R., & Estrada, F. (2014). SmartHEALTH: 6th International Workshop on Smart Technologies for Health and Wellbeing, at OZCHI 2014, Sydney Australia.Wadley, G., Ploderer, B., Vetere, F., & Brereton, M. (2013). Social Technologies for Health and Wellbeing, at OZCHI 2013, Adelaide, Australia.van Gemert-Pijnen, L., Reitberger, W., Langrial, S., Ploderer, B., & Oinas-Kukkonen, H. (2013). Workshop on Behavior Change Support Systems (BCSS), at Persuasive 2013, Sydney, Australia.Media reportsThe Saturday Paper (April, 2014) Apps that guide living as a quantified self, Interview with Dr Bernd Ploderer about the Distract Me iPhone app.ABC Radio (January, 2013), Interview with Dr Wally Smith about the Distract Me iPhone app.Contact detailsAssoc Prof Wally Smith

Email: wsmith@unimelb.edu.au








Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students


Staff only: FEIT Intranet



      Site footer   We acknowledge and pay respect to the Traditional Owners of the lands upon which our campuses are situated   Read about our commitment to reconciliation        About us     Careers at Melbourne     Safety and respect     Newsroom     Contact        Phone: 13 MELB (13 6352)  International: +61 3 9035 5511   Address:  The University of Melbourne  Grattan Street, Parkville  Victoria, 3010, Australia   View all Campus locations                  Facebook 

 Share on Facebook      LinkedIn 

 Share on LinkedIn      Instagram 

 Share on Instagram      Twitter 

 Share on Twitter                 Emergency     Terms & privacy     Accessibility     Privacy       The University of Melbourne  (Australian University): PRV12150    CRICOS number: 00116K   ABN: 84 002 705 224      

CloseSchool of Computing and Information Systems
About usAbout us
About the SchoolAbout the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computerCSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of MelbourneThe history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral ColloquiumCIS Doctoral Colloquium
2024 CIS Doctoral Colloquium2024 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Engage with the School of Computing and Information SystemsEngage with the School of Computing and Information Systems
Research collaborationResearch collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
Cremorne Digital Hub
NewsNews
2022 news and events2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
ResearchResearch
Artificial intelligenceArtificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer scienceComputer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with usStudy with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year CentreFirst Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programsGraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy LabAI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
ResearchResearch
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance LabArtificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer InteractionHuman-Computer Interaction
FacilitiesFacilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
PeoplePeople
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
ProjectsProjects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
ResearchResearch
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human-Robot Interaction
SeminarsSeminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
StudyStudy
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systemsInformation systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff



,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,






    This site uses and shares cookies and similar technologies to personalise your experience, advertise to you and provide content from third-parties as well as analyse our usage. You consent to our use of such technologies by proceeding. You can change your mind or consent choices at any time. Visit our Privacy Statement  for further information.
           Accept cookies       Cookie preferences              
====================================================================================================

