URL: https://melbconnect.com.au/purpose/

Melbourne Connect | About Melbourne Connect

As a digital innovation ecosystem, Melbourne Connect represents a physical and programmatic convergence of many organisations and interdisciplinary institutions seeking to leverage research and emerging technologies to disrupt and transform our society.
At its core lies interdisciplinary collaboration, where researchers and industry participants cross traditional disciplines to creatively and ingeniously tackle complex problems. Whether you are pursuing advancements in food security and synthetic biology, developing new medical devices to improve patient care and outcomes, or incorporating new methods of evidence-driven design, Melbourne Connect is a place where ideas have currency and innovation thrives.
Melbourne Connect is home to companies of all scales and stages, including start-ups, spin-outs and scale-ups, through to publicly listed companies. Regardless of where you sit on the journey from idea to Initial Public Offering, the Melbourne Connect ecosystem connects people, place and possibility.

Play video

The innovation precinct is an exemplar in mixed-use urban design and development, providing a wide range of amenities, including postgraduate student accommodation, retail outlets and an early learning centre, as well as a wide range of premium event venues with state-of-the-art facilities and resources.
Melbourne Connect is the epicentre of digital talent in Melbourne, accessing an extensive pipeline of highly skilled graduates, emerging researchers and thought-leading academics.
Melbourne Connect is powered by The University of Melbourne in partnership with a consortium led by Lendlease.

The Melbourne Connect Team

                Eduard Hovy, Executive Director
            
                Eduard Hovy, Executive Director

Eduard was born in South Africa, completing a B.Sc. (Hons) in Mathematics before working around Europe and then moving to the USA to complete a PhD in Artificial Intelligence at Yale University, and then led a research team at the University of Southern California's Information Sciences Institute in Los Angeles for over 20 years.
            
                Phil Callaghan, Director of Operations
            
                Phil Callaghan, Director of Operations

Experienced Director Of Operations with a demonstrated history of working in the higher education sector, with a service and continuous improvement focus. Skilled in Negotiation, Business Planning, Operations Management, Safety Management Systems, and Training Delivery. Strong education professional with a Post Graduate Diploma in Business Administration focused on Strategy from the University of Auckland.
            
                Shane Ridley, Partnership Development Manager
            
                Shane Ridley is the Partnership Development Manager at Melbourne Connect. Shane’s career has been built upon a diverse STEM foundation and encompasses a broad range of capabilities in commercial management, strategic development, and Board-level leadership.
            
Call (03) 9035 5553 Email: General Enquiries


