URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/colloquium/cisdc-2024#about





2024 CIS Doctoral Colloquium









































        Skip to main content
      





CISDC 2024ColloquiumSchool of Computing and Information Systems


School of Computing and Information Systems



Colloquium



CISDC 2024





Search

Menu










Go







Close





2024 CIS Doctoral Colloquium





About
Info Session
Program
Submission
Registration
FAQ
Contact

 

The CIS Doctoral Colloquium is an annual one-day research conference for graduate researchers in the School of Computing and Information Systems.

This event is an opportunity for CIS graduate researchers to present their research in a supportive environment and receive feedback from a wide audience of peers and industry representatives.We are asking our presenters to focus on the real-world impacts and applications of their work. We want you to be able to reach a wider audience that is beyond your peers in your field of research.

Previous colloquiums2023 2022 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015

 

When: 2pm,  July  11Where: Level 7 - Manhari Room, Melbourne ConnectWe’ve ordered a lot of doughnuts so please swing by and chat about how you can join in.

 


The program will be released soon, stay tuned!


 


Want to share your research to the community?The CIS Doctoral Colloquium the perfect place for you!

  The CIS Doctoral Colloquium is an exciting opportunity for PhD students to share their research with the University community and the general public. It's also an opportunity to meet with industry representatives and network with your peers.


Download: CIS Doctoral Colloquium 2024 Call for Submissions [PDF]




  Submissions are now open for the 2024 Doctoral Colloquium

  See the list of important dates for the 2024 Doctoral Colloquium at the bottom of this page.


Abstract submissions will close at midnight on Sunday, September 1st.

Submit Here

  If you have any questions about the colloquium or the submission process please email:CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.au


How To ParticipateOnce the applications are opened, you will be asked to submit all the required information through the link we provided. As you move on with your application, you will receive further information.





Choose your preferred submission track

Choose between the four available tracks. Please refer to the submission requirements for information about requirements for each track :Paper Presentation: You will submit a short paper (1-2 pages) in the lead-up to the event and present your research on stage (7-10min) followed up by a Q&A on the day.Poster/Demo:  You will present and discuss your academic work during a poster session on the day.Poster + Demo:  If you require to present additional material, you can supplement your poster with a demonstration. Please contact us for any material enquiries (screen, table, etc.)Lightning Talk: Inspired by the 3-minute thesis competitions from last year. You will talk about your thesis as a whole, preliminary results, an idea, a problem you'd like to solve, or any other topic related to your study, followed up by a Q&A on the day.



Submit your abstract

Please submit a 100 to 200-word abstract.All abstract submissions should contain a title, keywords and the list of your supervisors. Check the deadlines below on this page or from our communication emails.



Submit your documents

Once we receive your abstract, submit the additional information (depending on your track):Paper: submit a short paper of 1 to 2 pages and your slides.Poster: submit an A1 poster, we will print this for you before the event.Poster + Demo: submit your poster and the list of materials that you need for your demo.Lightning Talk: submit your slides. If you'd like some feedback and rehearse, you can present to us before the event!




Submission GuidelinesFind resources such as templates for the different tracks and examples from previous colloquiums on our dedicated resource page.
EligibilityApplicants must:Be a current graduate researcher / Master Student at the University of Melbourne.Be enrolled in the School of Computing and Information Systems.Provide required documents on time.Domestic and international; part-time and full-time students are eligible. There is no capacity limits and no selection criteria. We welcome research at all levels of progress and completion.PrizesThere will be both top and honorary prizes awarded to selected presentations.Note: If you won a prize in a previous colloquium, you will only be eligible to win again this year if you present a new piece of research.

Important DatesPlease note these are the proposed dates for the 2024 colloquium, they may be subject to change if necessary.





				Monday 15 July 2024


Submissions Open


				Sunday 1 September 2024


11:59 pm
Abstract  Deadline


				Monday 9 September 2024


Notification of Acceptance


				Tuesday 1 October 2024


11:59 pm
Material  Submission Deadline


				Tuesday 29 October 2024


Doctoral Colloquium


 

Want to attend the CIS Doctoral Colloquium?Register for the event and find information about the venue here.

     Get to know our graduate researchers from the school of Computing and Information Systems. The Colloquium is free to attend and will showcase a range of presentations and times for interaction.   


Registrations will open soon!


  Registrations will open soon for the
  2024 CIS Doctoral Colloquium!


Date & Time
Tuesday, 29 October, 2024


Venue Information
Melbourne ConnectThe Superfloor, Melbourne Connect700 Swanston Street, Carlton VIC 3053



Conference VenueThe 10th CIS Doctoral Colloquium (CIS-DC 2024) will be held at Melbourne's newest innovation precinct: Melbourne Connect, on Tuesday 29th of October 2024. The buildings accommodate more than 500 academic staff and post graduate students, researchers, businesses, and start-ups collaborating all together.





Melbourne Connect700 Swanston StCarlton VIC 3053(03) 9035 5553

 


Frequently Asked QuestionsI’m not sure where to submit my workGo to the "Submission" tab on the home page and follow the steps to submit all the required documents.Where can I find resources to help me prepare for my submission?You can find additional resources (including previous posters and proceedings) on the submission guidelines page. If you have further questions, don't hesitate to reach out!  CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.auI’m only at the start of my PhD, what can I present about?We expect that submissions will come from people at all points in their PhD or Master studies. Intermediate results or a discussion on a small aspect of your research is fine (and welcome!). The lighting talk section is also a perfect place to talk about the research area you are going to be looking at or a problem you hope to solve.









I’m a UniMelb Undergraduate or Masters student, can I submit my work?

Due to the high demand we received from past few years, we decided to  allow Master student to participate this year! yeah!  Submit your work and talk to other talented students.  Any students are most welcome to attend the conference on the day.



Does it matter what point I am at in my studies?

No, all graduate researchers (PhD and Masters by Research students) and Masters by Coursework students are welcome to participate. Even if you have just started, we want to hear what you are excited about at the start of your research journey!



Can I reuse a piece of work?

The purpose of the DC is to showcase an aspect of your work to the wider CIS GR and academic community. If you want to workshop something you intend to submit or refine a piece of work that you have already submitted, that’s perfectly fine. If there’s a demo you’d like to showcase to a wider audience, we’d love to see it!



I’m really busy

The DC is a GR student forum to showcase GR student work and to get experience presenting and sharing your research in a safe environment. It’s also an opportunity to meet industry guests and potential future job opportunities. There are several CIS academics and researchers in the School now who participated in earlier DCs, so look at where it can take you.If you’re on the fence, come and join our lighting talk session!



I need some materials to put together a demo

Please speak to the committee if there are costs involved with producing your demo! Some support is available. We can also work with you as to how best to set up a demo if you’re unsure as to what to do.



My Friend is outside CIS/unimelb. Can they submit?

Unfortunately, they can't. However, they are more than welcome to register for CIS-DC, attend the talks, and engage with speakers.



Are submissions reviewed?

Yes, your submission will be reviewed by a committee of esteemed researchers within the school of CIS



Can I present more than one track?

Yes, you can. We are more than happy to see your active participation in the DC.



Are there prizes for best paper, best poster, etc?

How does $500 sound? We will once again have people’s choice prizes too!



How the prizes are determined?

Our judge team consisting of senior CIS faculties will select the best talks based on the quality of the presentation and work.



I’m currently based offshore or interstate, am I able to participate?

We would love for you to participate. If you can't attend the conference in person, the best option would be to submit a pre-recorded presentation for the 3 minute research track.



Can I become a student volunteer?

We offer student volunteer roles every year. Stay tuned as we will advertise it closer to the date



 

SponsoringInterested in sponsoring our next Colloquium? If you are interested in hearing more about how your organisation can be a part of our event, contact us by email at: CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.au
EnquiriesAny further enquiries, contact the CIS DC team:


EmailEmail: CIS-DC@unimelb.edu.au
Social mediaWe are on social media:


TwitterTwitter: @cis_dc



InstagramInstagram: @unimelb_cis_dc



FacebookFacebook: fb.me/melbcisdc









@cis_dc


@unimelb_cis_dc


fb.me/melbcisdc








Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students


Staff only: FEIT Intranet



      Site footer   We acknowledge and pay respect to the Traditional Owners of the lands upon which our campuses are situated   Read about our commitment to reconciliation        About us     Careers at Melbourne     Safety and respect     Newsroom     Contact        Phone: 13 MELB (13 6352)  International: +61 3 9035 5511   Address:  The University of Melbourne  Grattan Street, Parkville  Victoria, 3010, Australia   View all Campus locations                  Facebook 

 Share on Facebook      LinkedIn 

 Share on LinkedIn      Instagram 

 Share on Instagram      Twitter 

 Share on Twitter                 Emergency     Terms & privacy     Accessibility     Privacy       The University of Melbourne  (Australian University): PRV12150    CRICOS number: 00116K   ABN: 84 002 705 224      

CloseSchool of Computing and Information Systems
About usAbout us
About the SchoolAbout the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computerCSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of MelbourneThe history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral ColloquiumCIS Doctoral Colloquium
2024 CIS Doctoral Colloquium2024 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Engage with the School of Computing and Information SystemsEngage with the School of Computing and Information Systems
Research collaborationResearch collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
Cremorne Digital Hub
NewsNews
2022 news and events2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
ResearchResearch
Artificial intelligenceArtificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer scienceComputer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with usStudy with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year CentreFirst Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programsGraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy LabAI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
ResearchResearch
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance LabArtificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer InteractionHuman-Computer Interaction
FacilitiesFacilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
PeoplePeople
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
ProjectsProjects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
ResearchResearch
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human-Robot Interaction
SeminarsSeminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
StudyStudy
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systemsInformation systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff



,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,






    This site uses and shares cookies and similar technologies to personalise your experience, advertise to you and provide content from third-parties as well as analyse our usage. You consent to our use of such technologies by proceeding. You can change your mind or consent choices at any time. Visit our Privacy Statement  for further information.
           Accept cookies       Cookie preferences              
====================================================================================================

