URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/study/undergraduate

Study with School of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne

Undergraduate

Our undergraduate subject sequences are accessible both to students who have not programmed before, and to students who already have an understanding of computational thinking and programming.

Don’t be discouraged if you are someone who thinks of a computer as just being a useful machine that is connected to internet services — our introductory subjects build on your high school maths and communications skills to teach you the fundamentals of programming and computational thinking, and don’t require that you already be proficient in any way. And if you are planning to study a different major, having some knowledge of computational thinking will enhance your skills in that other discipline.We also offer introductory subjects in Information Systems that examine the business and social aspects of computing, and do not involve the study of programming.Undergraduate majors are provided via the Bachelor of Design or Bachelor of Science degrees.

Majors
Visit our Study site for more information on each of our majors:

Computing and Software Systems major
Bachelor of ScienceThe Computing and Software Systems major is designed for students who wish to develop considerable technical expertise, including exposure to a variety of programming paradigms, an understanding of the software development life-cycle and other key computing topics.

Computing major
Bachelor of Design

The Computing major is designed for technically focused students who want to develop strong professional capabilities in programming and development of digital artifacts. You will develop strong technical skills in the areas of media computation, data manipulation and visualisation, interaction design, and usability.

Data Science major
Bachelor of Science

The Data Science major has an emphasis on statistics and computer science. It will support you in developing a strong foundation in the statistical aspects of data analysis (data collection, data mining, modelling and inference), as well as the principles of computer science (algorithms, data structures, data management and machine learning).

Digital Technologies major
Bachelor of Design

The Digital Technologies major will provide you with practical skills and knowledge that can be applied in a variety of fields associated with design, with a special focus on digital media artefacts such as web-based media, mobile media, and interactive media.

Spatial Systems major
Bachelor of Science & Bachelor of Design
Spatial Systems explores the science and technology of 3D measurement, mapping and visualisation.

Diploma in ComputingThe Diploma in Computing allows students to complement a major in a different discipline, or different degree, with a qualification in the IT area. The diploma is studied concurrently with your undergraduate degree. A total of eight subjects of study in IT areas is required, of which up to four subjects can be cross-credited to the primary degree.More details can be found on the University’s Study website:Diploma in ComputingProgramming proficiency testsMore information about the Programming proficiency test.


