URL: https://cis.unimelb.edu.au/about/history/memories#sitemap





Memories of the department









































        Skip to main content
      





Memories of the departmentThe history of computing at the University of MelbourneAbout usSchool of Computing and Information Systems


School of Computing and Information Systems



About us



The history of computing at the University of Melbourne



Memories of the department





Search

Menu










Go







Close







Memories of the department



Recollections of working in the Department include the pleasure of mentoring talented students and developing close working relationships with colleagues, the freedom to implement creative approaches to teaching and research, and the excitement of working on ground-breaking projects.A common challenge was adapting to rapid change, as the Department constantly evolved.The days working with CSIRAC were exciting, we had a sense of being at the beginning of something new which had a long way to go. There were virtually no demarcations based on rank, and every day was an adventure. Kay Thorne This is a department that has evolved to be more international in focus without forgetting its people, or without forgetting its traditions such as its love of the C language. Tony Wirth In 1999–2001 I was teaching brilliant undergraduate students many of whom I still see today both in Australia and overseas. Research has become first rate. Brian Corbett Joining the department meant that I could work with leading researchers, who were names that I read on publications, working in the department I got to know them. Rachelle Bosua I’ve worked with a lot of remarkable people. As a staff member I finally found a job that I (usually) like. Very few jobs are like this. Greg Wadley Not long after student fees were introduced we changed faculty, there was a complicated process we had to go through to alter the point values of our courses. I wrote a satirical play that a group of us performed. Lee Naish Excerpt from play:Welcome to meeting 57 of the Points, Weights and Measures 2000 planning committee … Now, the minutes of the last meeting … did we take minutes?  … We took hours.UniprocessorsThe Uniprocessors were Department staff members who used juggling, unicycling and fire breathing to teach computing concepts in a playful way, and to attract students to the Computer Science course, during the late 1980s and early to mid 1990s.The Uniprocessors started off as a bit of a joke. There used to be a lunchtime BBQ and honours student Review on the last Friday of the year, one year I had a lecture on algorithms and data structure at 3.15pm and it seemed a little inappropriate to have a serious lecture after that. A few of us in the Department did busking, so we demonstrated concepts with juggling. Lee Naish An excerpt from the lecture notes:Why is juggling so popular amongst computer scientists? They are trying to solve the biggest open problem in theoretical comp sci — Does P = NP. If anyone can find a way to learn how to juggle N balls in polynomial time then the problem is solved. So if you see a computer science lecturer juggling — don’t disturb them — they are engaged in important research. Lecture notes c.1997, Lee Naish I busked in order to pay my way through University. What was surprising was how many computer scientists were (and are) jugglers. I suspect it’s tied to the recent discovery that juggling is one of the best things for neuroplasticity. Peter Stuckey I had seen the mountaineering club abseil down the Redmond Barry Building, sometimes in a silly way, like on roller skates, or naked. I brought along my unicycle and some extra climbing gear and convinced them to let me abseil on my unicycle. It didn’t really work very well, just long enough to get to the photo! Lee Naish Starting the Department of Information Systems Staff of Computation Lab, c1960. Trevor Pearcey, Ron Bowles, Kay Sullivan (Thorne), Jurij Semkiw, Geoff Hill, Frank Hirst at the University of Melbourne. FEIT-CIS Heritage Collection.  Department staff photo, 1984. Image courtesy University of Melbourne.  Steven Lynch, Department technical staff, 1987. Image courtesy University of Melbourne.  Justin Zobel, Senior Tutor, 1987. Image courtesy University of Melbourne.  Sean Maynard Graduation, 2010. Image courtesy University of Melbourne.  Discovery Day, 1994. Photograph of the Uniprocessors recruiting students to the department. Photo by Michael Silver. View full size images in photo gallery






Email Contact us
Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology
Engineering & IT Students


Staff only: FEIT Intranet



      Site footer   We acknowledge and pay respect to the Traditional Owners of the lands upon which our campuses are situated   Read about our commitment to reconciliation        About us     Careers at Melbourne     Safety and respect     Newsroom     Contact        Phone: 13 MELB (13 6352)  International: +61 3 9035 5511   Address:  The University of Melbourne  Grattan Street, Parkville  Victoria, 3010, Australia   View all Campus locations                  Facebook 

 Share on Facebook      LinkedIn 

 Share on LinkedIn      Instagram 

 Share on Instagram      Twitter 

 Share on Twitter                 Emergency     Terms & privacy     Accessibility     Privacy       The University of Melbourne  (Australian University): PRV12150    CRICOS number: 00116K   ABN: 84 002 705 224      

CloseSchool of Computing and Information Systems
About usAbout us
About the SchoolAbout the School
Life in Melbourne
Alumni profiles
Casual tutor, demonstrator, marker and project team supervisor opportunities
CSIRAC: Our first computerCSIRAC: Our first computer
CSIRAC’s vital statistics
CSIRAC chronology
CSIRAC design
How did CSIRAC work?: Storage
How did CSIRAC work?: Console
CSIRAC uses
CSIRAC: Designers
The music of CSIRAC
CSIRAC emulator
Jurij Semkiw
CSIRAC and computer history links
The Last of the First, CSIRAC: Australia’s First Computer
CSIRAC photo gallery
The history of computing at the University of MelbourneThe history of computing at the University of Melbourne
History of computing in the department
Starting the Department of Information Systems
Early internet
Memories of the department
Programming
Student life in the department
Women in computing
CIS Doctoral ColloquiumCIS Doctoral Colloquium
2024 CIS Doctoral Colloquium2024 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium2023 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Colloquium Photos
2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium2022 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Submission Guidelines
Program_open
Participation and Awards
Volunteers and Judges
CISDC 2022 Photos
2019 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2018 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2017 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2016 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2015 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2014 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
2013 CIS Doctoral Colloquium
Keynote speaker
Colloquium sponsors
Committee
Call for papers
Application_closed
Submission_info
Program_pending
Program_open
Alumni
Registration_pending
Engage with the School of Computing and Information SystemsEngage with the School of Computing and Information Systems
Research collaborationResearch collaboration
Cyber attack maps to underpin better strategic responses
Surgeons gain implant expertise with virtual training
Informatics analyses value in digital health technologies
Data contrasting highlights changing use of city
Online community designed to support mental health for young people
Satisfaction score to improve quality of internet search results
Supply chain scheduling keeps automated mining operations on task
Combined data adds power to decision-making
New algorithms help interpret vision loss from digital images
Host a student intern
Student industry projects
Become a guest speaker
Cremorne Digital Hub
NewsNews
2022 news and events2022 news and events
CIS-EEE Seed Funding
How data can prevent overdiagnosis

CIS - IE 2022 Research Collaboration Seed Funding
2021 news and events
2020 news and events
2019 news and events
2023 news and events2023 news and events
CIS-ME 2023 Seed Funding round
CIS-IE 2023 Seed Funding round
People
ResearchResearch
Artificial intelligenceArtificial intelligence
Graduate Reseachers
Computer scienceComputer science
Graduate Researchers
Digital Health
Research projects
Seminars
Schools
Study with usStudy with us
Undergraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
Industry based learning
Programming proficiency test
First Year CentreFirst Year Centre
About
Study with CIS
Undergraduate programs
Get help
People
Become a tutor
Contact
Graduate programsGraduate programs
Graduate coursework programs
Graduate research programs
AI and Autonomy LabAI and Autonomy Lab
News
People
Publications
ResearchResearch
Mining and optimisation
Automated planning languages
Foundations of human-agent collaboration
People-oriented software engineering
Explainable artificial intelligence
Multimodal human-agent collaboration
Artificial Intelligence Assurance LabArtificial Intelligence Assurance Lab
About us
Research
Publications
People
Industry engagement
Academic Centre of Cyber Security Excellence (ACCSE)
Human-Computer InteractionHuman-Computer Interaction
FacilitiesFacilities
User Experience Lab
Interactive Technologies Lab
Engineering Workshop

Telstra Creator Space

News and Events
PeoplePeople
Staff
Graduate researchers
Alumni
ProjectsProjects
Adaptive learning technologies
Ageing and avatars
AI-enabled assistance for strategic planning in games
Wearable technology for arm monitoring in health
Augmented fitness
Augmented learning environment for physiotherapy education
Biometric Mirror
Changing views
Citizen Heritage
Cognition-aware systems
Cognitive interaction
Completed projects
Connecting learners for collaboration across diverse communities
Cross-community information systems
Crowdsourcing
Death and the Internet
Deceptive AI
Designing for scale
Designing technologies for indigenous knowledge
Digital commemoration
Digital domesticity
Conceptualising and measuring digital emotion regulation
Emerging technologies for enrichment in old age
Encounters
Ethics and digital games
Evaluation of natural user interfaces in query auto-completion
Examining the ‘digital’ in hybrid digital boardgames
Exploring complex data sets using highly engaging environments
Exploring natural user interfaces during meal times
FaceSpace
Getting well and being present
Growing old and staying connected
HandLog: tangible interactions for game input and rehabilitation
iFISH
Improving Vitamin D status and related health in young women
Insertable technology for human interactions
Interactive displays
Interactive spaces and media architecture
Kinecting with orang-utans
Mediating intimacy
Mobile fieldwork and learning
Multimodal human–agent collaboration
Music streaming and algorithmic recommendation
Near-infrared spectroscopy
Onebody
Orygen Virtual World Project
Promoting student peer review in Australian tertiary education
Personal sensing for mental health and wellbeing
Pholiota Unlocked
Reading on ubiquitous devices
Smart Garden Watering
Smartphones for science
Social gaming events: Warhammer 40K
Social networking sites for ambivalent socialisers
Social play in immersive gaming environments
Social robots and virtual assistants for older people
Sociophysical interactions
Social Orientated Requirements Engineering
Spectating eSports and Let’s Play
SpinalLog
Supporting social interactions for video calls in the home
Teleconsultation: enhancing interactions between clinicians and patients
Virtual co-presence
Virtual Reality and climate change communication
VR therapy for youth mental health
Robot Assisted Learning and Rehabilitation
XR for Human-Robot Interaction
Social and Domestic Drones 
Human-Centred Agent Learning
Child of Now
 #thismymob
Publications
ResearchResearch
Smart Spaces
Ubiquitous computing
Digital health
Digital nature
Novel interactions
Design for ageing
Games and play
Social computing and communities
Human-Robot Interaction
SeminarsSeminars
Past seminars 2020
Past seminars 2019
Past seminars 2016–2018
Past seminars 2011–2015
Past seminars 2006–2010
Past seminars 2004–2005
StudyStudy
HCI programs for potential students
HCI subjects
Masters projects
Potential PhD students
Information systemsInformation systems
Process science and technology
Business analytics and decision making
Cybersecurity management
Digital health
Innovations in the digital society
Publications
Contact us
Current Students
Library
Staff



,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,






    This site uses and shares cookies and similar technologies to personalise your experience, advertise to you and provide content from third-parties as well as analyse our usage. You consent to our use of such technologies by proceeding. You can change your mind or consent choices at any time. Visit our Privacy Statement  for further information.
           Accept cookies       Cookie preferences              
====================================================================================================

