URL: https://melbconnect.com.au/events/beyond-housing

Melbourne Connect | Beyond Housing

What is it
Beyond Housing invites us to consider the links between architectural design practice, research, and education. The exhibition celebrates the work of the Design Studio Epsilon, the undergraduate capstone design subject for Melbourne School of Design’s Bachelor of Design students majoring in Architecture. It showcases 32 selected student works produced over the past four years.
When

                    25/05/2024, 10:00am
                            -
                02/06/2024, 1:00pm
                        
Where

Dulux Gallery, Glyn Davis Building (MSD), Masson Road, Parkville

        Free
    
Learn more

Beyond Housing

Beyond Housing invites us to consider the links between architectural design practice, research, and education. The exhibition celebrates the work of the Design Studio Epsilon, the undergraduate capstone design subject for Melbourne School of Design’s Bachelor of Design students majoring in Architecture. It showcases 32 selected student works produced over the past four years.
The projects presented here are developed through an innovative curriculum that draws on current housing research from multiple disciplines and links with international architectural practice. They use social, environmental, and economic challenges as a testing ground for developing their design skills. They explore how architects can use the agency to engage with communities and the environment. The presented student projects are for affordable, multi-unit residential buildings and viable alternatives to the high-volume development in Melbourne’s middle-ring suburbs. They showcase the diversity and depth of creativity fostered within the Design Studio Epsilon.
The Beyond Housing exhibition is named after the curriculum agenda for Design Studio Epsilon, created by Dr Djordje Stojanovic in 2020. It showcases the selected works of (students) Charlie Eastwood, Je Yen Tan, Maya Welsch, Jeff Qu Liu, Stephanie Wills, Cayley Chan, Madeline Craigie, Ziqian John Chen, Tara Durkin, Tahli Hogberg, Zhichun Eddie Guo, Chon Kei Jacky Lam, April Lachal, Nathan Arceri, Luca Raneri, Tianyao Song, Yi Ren, Jingwei Jasper Zhang, Lokkan Ting, Shi Hui Ennabel Cheong, Zixuan April Li, Sabrina Wanlin Lee, Jianing Jamie Tian, Elena Stefanos, Weng Chong Kevin Lam, Nicholas Pang, Hinako Tamaki, Marcus Tan, Nicholas Axel Sugiarto, Geraldy Chandradinata, Kelly Tai, Greta Hinchen; (tutors): Claudio Torres Salazar, Mark Ng, Mitchell Eaton, Leonidas Koumouris, Nathan Arceri, Jacqui Nguyen, Colby Vexler, Maria Yanez Sainz, Hella Wigge, Katie Skillington, Nancy Ji, Simona Falvo and Dayne Trower, (senior tutor) Sarah Song and (subject coordinator) Dr Djordje Stojanovic.
Panel discussions and a guided tour will bring researchers, architects, educators, and students together to expand the debate on both housing and architectural design education.This event is presented as part of Melbourne School of Design's program in Melbourne Design Week, Australia’s largest and leading annual design festival.
About the exhibition creator
Dr Djordje Stojanovic is a Senior Lecturer at the University of Melbourne, Faculty of Architecture,
Building and Planning. He holds a PhD from the University of Belgrade, a Master of Science degree
from London School of Economics and a Master of Architecture degree form Architectural
Association. He is RIBA3, and ARB registered architect in the UK since 2001. His work is strongly
informed by the experience gained from employment with Zaha Hadid Architects, Ron Arad

Associates, ARUP and AKT in London, and mediates between design education, research and
practice.

His research interests include the interaction between architectural design and computation,
sensate environments and adaptive buildings. He is interested in the advancement of the design of
public spaces, civic buildings, and housing and his research output includes creative work and
construction of prototypical models.

Call (03) 9035 5553 Email: General Enquiries


