URL: https://melbconnect.com.au/events/wattle-fellowship-spotlight-2024-3

Melbourne Connect | Wattle Fellowship Spotlight 2024 #3

What is it
The Wattle Fellowship invites you to Spotlight 2024: the last of three events that showcase the learnings, development and impact of students involved in our program. You will have the opportunity to hear about the journey and projects fellows have undertaken, and connect with other people passionate about sustainability over food and music.
When

                    09/05/2024
                            5:30pm
                -
                8:00pm
                        
Where

Science Gallery Melbourne, 114 Grattan St, Carlton VIC 3053, Australia

        Free - $65
    
Register here

Wattle Fellowship Spotlight 2024 #3 - Science Gallery Melbourne
The Wattle Fellowship invites you to Spotlight 2024: the last of three events that showcase the learnings, development and impact of students involved in our program. You will have the opportunity to hear about the journey and projects fellows have undertaken, and connect with other people passionate about sustainability over food and music.
Our mission is to unlock the leadership the planet needs. Our vision is one where sustainability practices and principles are embedded into every social endeavour. Wattle Fellowship action projects are diverse and divergent, but all aim to create positive social and environmental outcomes. 
At this event, you will hear about:
The untapped potential of First Nations engagement in renewable energy projects through law and policy mapping (Connor Shaw, Juris Doctor)Exploration of ecosystem interconnectedness and environmental health through virtual reality (Pamudika Kiridena, Doctor of Philosophy - Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences)How a community thrift market event promoted reuse and repair to reduce household waste (Adele Roeder, Bachelor of Science)Teaching Indigenous sustainability practices and beliefs through interactive workshops (Darcy Hammond, Bachelor of Arts, Diploma in Languages)The possibilities of a primary school garden program to host workshops, incursions, and nature-based learning (Christine Li, Doctor of Philosophy - Science)Boosting native bee diversity and abundance in urban environments with native bee hotels (Clancy Lester, Master of Science (BioSciences))The role of ocean literacy in building climate resilience with young people (Alyssa Seckinger-Crow, Bachelor of Science)How insurance and finance markets can provide opportunities for regenerative agriculture (Felix Plunkett, Bachelor of Commerce with Honours)

Please arrive from 5:30pm for snacks, and a 5.45pm start which will be hosted by Wattle Fellowship Program Director Linh Do.
Thank you to Science Gallery for hosting us. A light supper by Indigenous caterer, Pawa, will follow presentations. 
Come along to network, hear ideas from the next generation, and learn about fellow-led sustainability action projects designed to create a positive impact.
Want to hear from more fellows? We also have Spotlights events on the 7th of May at St. Hilda's College and the 8th of May at EY.Interested in becoming a fellow? We are currently accepting applications from University of Melbourne students - applications are open until the 21st of April.
Our Wattle Spotlight series are designed and delivered by our partners Every Bit Counts.

Call (03) 9035 5553 Email: General Enquiries


